{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf610
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset134 PingFangSC-Regular;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww33600\viewh19580\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Scopus\
EXPORT DATE:04 Dec 2021\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Your query : ((TITLE-ABS-KEY(("digital forensics" OR "cyber forensics" OR "computer forensics") AND ("evidence" OR "artefacts" OR "traces")) AND ("tampering" OR "manipulation" OR "anti forensics" OR "counter forensics" OR "forgery" OR "verification" OR "validation")))
\f0 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
ID: 1\
Zhang, Y., Yu, L., Fang, Z., Xiong, N.N., Zhang, L., Tian, H.\
57192964261;57213269815;13605852400;57225962791;55709167500;57275545100;\
An end-to-end deep learning model for robust smooth filtering identification\
(2022) Future Generation Computer Systems, 127, pp. 263-275. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85115889154&doi=10.1016%2fj.future.2021.09.004&partnerID=40&md5=b8899ae3c1121a40e27da60ec234cc07\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.future.2021.09.004\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Shanghai University of Engineering Science, Shanghai, 201620, China; \
Shanghai Key Laboratory of Integrated Administration Technologies for Information Security, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China; \
Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, Northeastern State UniversityOK  74464, United States; \
School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN  47907, United States\
ABSTRACT: Smooth filtering, a common blurring and denoising operator, has often been utilized postoperatively to diminish the traces left by malicious manipulations. Most of the existing forensic methods only focus on one specific filtering artifact such as median filtering, which is insufficient to reveal the manipulation history of digital images. Unlike traditional convolutional neural network (CNN)-based networks, which normally introduce handcrafted features, including frequency domain features and median filtering residuals, into the preprocessing layer, this paper proposes an end-to-end deep learning model for robust smooth filtering identification. First, a distinctive network structure named the Squeeze-and-Excitation (SE) block is introduced to select discriminative features adaptively and suppress the irrelevant features to the smooth filtering effect. Then, as the network depth increases, multiple inception-residual blocks are stacked to extract discriminative features and reduce the information loss. Finally, different smooth filtering operations can be classified through learning hierarchical features. The experimental results on a composite database show that the proposed model outperforms the state-of-the-art methods, especially in small size and JPEG compression scenarios. \'a9 2021\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Convolutional neural network;  Residual inception;  Smooth filtering forensics;  Squeeze-and-excitation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 2\
Wu, J., Tong, T., Chen, Y., Kang, X., Sun, W.\
57215927193;57305483500;57195132102;7102354750;57188643306;\
An adversarial learning framework with cross-domain loss for median filtered image restoration and anti-forensics\
(2022) Computers and Security, 112, art. no. 102497, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85117702479&doi=10.1016%2fj.cose.2021.102497&partnerID=40&md5=353c5b522c2dcb8385733e617db6939b\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.cose.2021.102497\
AFFILIATIONS: Guangdong Key Laboratory of Information Security Technology, and School of Computer Science and Engineering, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China; \
School of Cyber Security, Guangdong Polytechnic Normal University, Guangzhou, 510665, China; \
Information Technology Key Laboratory of the Ministry of Education, School of Electronic and Information Engineering, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China\
ABSTRACT: As an ill-posed problem, median filtered (MF) image restoration and anti-forensics still face a challenge in improving the visual quality and deceiving the forensic detectors simultaneously. MF image restoration mainly aims at image visual quality recovery, while MF image anti-forensics primarily focuses on deceiving the existing forensic algorithms. Median filtering is popularly used as an operation for image denoising and smoothing. It is also employed by image anti-forensics to conceal or remove the traces of other image manipulating operations, such as JPEG blocking artifacts and the periodicity introduced by image resampling. This work proposes an adversarial learning framework that introduces loss terms spanning three domains for MF image restoration and anti-forensics. The differences of high-frequency coefficients in the discrete wavelet transform (DWT) domain are introduced as a term of loss term to restore high-frequency components. Moreover, high-frequency subband variance loss in the discrete cosine transform (DCT) domain is proposed to make the statistical characteristics of the generated image closer to that of the original image. Together with the Huber loss in the spatial domain, a novel generator network is developed and trained to enhance information flow and feature reuse. A capsule network is applied as a discriminator for differentiating the generated image from the original version. We explore a solution through adversarial learning in an infinite set of possible solutions. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method is able to restore the visual quality of MF images with salt and pepper noise previously more effectively than the existing methods. What is more, our method achieves the best anti-forensic performance in comparison with the existing state-of-the-art MF image anti-forensic methods, while enhancing the quality of anti-forensically restored images. \'a9 2021\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Adversarial learning;  High-frequency coefficients loss;  High-frequency subband variance loss;  Image restoration and anti-forensics;  Median filtering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 3\
Husnjak, S., Forenbacher, I., Perakovi\uc0\u263 , D., Cviti\u263 , I.\
56126321100;56560222800;6507543478;57188680432;\
UAV Forensics: DJI Mavic Air Noninvasive Data Extraction and Analysis\
(2022) EAI/Springer Innovations in Communication and Computing, pp. 115-127. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85113537939&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-67241-6_10&partnerID=40&md5=47bfe191dc067127b3161ab75d7c20ef\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-67241-6_10\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Transport and Traffic Sciences, University of Zagreb, Zagreb, Croatia\
ABSTRACT: The unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) systems are a rapidly evolving and emerging technology with their widespread usage. This rapid growth of usage of UAVs has also augmented associated security issues and criminal activities. UAVs are rich sources of digital evidence and there is a growing need for acquisition and analysis of their stored and transferred data, including all the elements which form unmanned aerial system (UAS). This research paper presents a forensic investigation on an UAV, specifically the DJI Mavic Air, and associated smartphone app DJI GO 4 installed on Android device used as a part of the ground control station (GCS). Forensic analysis of flight logs, media files, and other important files of UAV and controlling application for identifying digital artifacts was done by a commercial forensic tool that does not require invasive or destructive methods for data acquisition. Through a five-step investigation methodology, it was found that the internal and external storage of DJI Mavic Air and associated Android device with installed DJI GO 4 application contain a significant and valuable amount of forensic data. Moreover, those data were classified into segments and provided details of some of the possible evidence in digital investigation. \'a9 2022, The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  DJI Mavic Air;  Drone forensics;  UAS;  UAV\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 4\
Zhou, Z., Pan, W., Jonathan Wu, Q.M., Yang, C.-N., Lv, Z.\
55728217100;57207692136;57215532108;7407025072;55925162500;\
Geometric rectification-based neural network architecture for image manipulation detection\
(2021) International Journal of Intelligent Systems, 36 (12), pp. 6993-7016. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85111417529&doi=10.1002%2fint.22577&partnerID=40&md5=8ad404655da1ab1a0da8022503263228\
\
DOI: 10.1002/int.22577\
AFFILIATIONS: Engineering Research Center of Digital Forensics, Ministry of Education, Nanjing University of Information Science and Technology, Nanjing, China; \
School of Computer and Software, Nanjing University of Information Science and Technology, Nanjing, China; \
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Windsor, Windsor, ON, Canada; \
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, National Dong Hwa University, Hualian, Taiwan; \
School of Data Science and Software Engineering, Qingdao University, Qingdao, China\
ABSTRACT: Determination of image authenticity usually requires the identification and localization of the manipulated regions of images. Hence, image manipulation detection has become one of the most important tasks in the field of multimedia forensics. Recently, Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have achieved promising performance in image manipulation detection. However, it is hard for the existing CNN-based manipulation detection approaches to accurately identify and localize the manipulated regions that have undergone geometric transformations, since CNNs are limited by their inability to be geometrically invariant. To address this issue, we propose a geometric rectification-based neural network architecture for image manipulation detection. In this type of network architecture, following the detection of a set of potential manipulated regions (PMRs) using Region Proposal Network, the Spatial Transformer Network is employed to geometrically rectify the convolutional feature maps (CFMs) of these regions to obtain the geometrically rectified CFMs (GR-CFMs). Subsequently, the residual feature maps (RFMs) are computed to capture the characteristic inconsistency between the CFMs and GR-CFMs of each PMR. Finally, the computed RFMs are automatically integrated with the GR-CFMs by a designed attention module to determine whether each PMR is a manipulated region and to localize the manipulated part at the pixel-level. Extensive experiments on the public data set as well as on our challenging data set demonstrate that the proposed network architecture achieves desirable performance in identifying and localizing regions with common tampering artifacts, which involve geometric transformations. \'a9 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: digital forensics;  geometric rectification;  image manipulation detection;  spatial transformer network;  tampering artifacts\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 5\
Yang, J., Xiao, S., Li, A., Lan, G., Wang, H.\
25959803600;57224993887;57224999005;57224993783;56201184600;\
Detecting fake images by identifying potential texture difference\
(2021) Future Generation Computer Systems, 125, pp. 127-135. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85108877882&doi=10.1016%2fj.future.2021.06.043&partnerID=40&md5=c5bc9545c7626e0086e927c57696126f\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.future.2021.06.043\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electrical and Information Engineering, Tianjin University, Tianjin, China; \
Department of Engineering Jacksonville University, Jacksonville, FL, United States\
ABSTRACT: Fake detection has become an urgent task. Generative adversarial networks (GANs) extended to deep learning has shown its extraordinary ability in the fields of image, audio, and speech. But advanced technology benefits us, it also poses a threat to us when used in Cyber Crime. The Deepfake (common name for face manipulation methods) based on GANs can realize the replacement of different faces. Due to the development of GANs, faces generated by Deepfake can already be visually real. Deepfake can purposely replace any face to a different person, so that a fabricated event may be widely spread because of the convenience of the Internet, causing serious impacts such as personal attacks and cyber crime. Based on cutting-edge research, this paper proposes a intelligence forensic method of Deepfake detection. We first discover the subtle texture differences between real and fake image in image saliency, which shows difference in the texture of faces. To amplify this difference, we exploit guided filter with saliency map as guide map to enhance the texture artifacts caused by the post-processing and display the potential features of forgery. Resnet18 classification network efficiently learns the exposed difference and finally realizes the real and fake detection of face images. We evaluate the performance of the method and experiments verify that the proposed method can achieve the state-of-the-art detection accuracy. \'a9 2021 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensic;  Fake detection;  Image saliency;  Security and privacy;  Texture difference\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 6\
Wu, J., Kang, X., Yang, J., Sun, W.\
57215927193;7102354750;57193387035;57188643306;\
A framework of generative adversarial networks with novel loss for JPEG restoration and anti-forensics\
(2021) Multimedia Systems, 27 (6), pp. 1075-1089. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85104531938&doi=10.1007%2fs00530-021-00778-6&partnerID=40&md5=b5e0748692ecccc0a58bccfeff3d89d8\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s00530-021-00778-6\
AFFILIATIONS: Guangdong Key Laboratory of Information Security Technology, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China; \
Information Technology Key Laboratory of the Ministry of Education, School of Electronic and Information Engineering, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China\
ABSTRACT: Both JPEG restoration and anti-forensics remove the artifacts left by JPEG compression, and recover the JPEG compressed image. However, how to restore the high-frequency details of a JPEG compressed image for JPEG restoration and how to deceive the existing JPEG compression detectors without sacrificing visual quality in JPEG anti-forensics remain challenging. To address these issues, a framework of generative adversarial networks (GAN) with novel loss functions for JPEG restoration and anti-forensics (JRA-GAN) is proposed to allow a JPEG compressed image to be translated into a reconstructed one. Since JPEG compression causes impairment to high-frequency components, an alternating current (AC)-component loss function that measures the loss of AC components is proposed in JRA-GAN to recover these components. To prevent forensic detection, a calibration loss function is also introduced in JRA-GAN to mitigate the variance gap in the high-frequency subbands between a generated image and its calibrated version. Our experimental results demonstrate that the proposed JPEG restoration method outperforms existing methods in terms of image quality, and the JPEG anti-forensic scheme achieves better visual quality and anti-forensic performance that is comparable to the existing state-of-the-art anti-forensic methods.\'a0Our code is available in this page: https://github.com/wujianyuan/JRG-GAN. \'a9 2021, The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: AC-Component loss;  Calibration loss;  GAN framework;  JPEG anti-forensics;  JPEG restoration\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 7\
Dixit, A., Bag, S.\
57210414467;36843678100;\
A fast technique to detect copy-move image forgery with reflection and non-affine transformation attacks\
(2021) Expert Systems with Applications, 182, art. no. 115282, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85107698592&doi=10.1016%2fj.eswa.2021.115282&partnerID=40&md5=aaa0a950cdee2c55329d240689ce9cb7\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.eswa.2021.115282\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology (Indian School of Mines), Dhanbad, 826004, India\
ABSTRACT: Copy-move forgery is one of the most frequently utilized image tampering technique which uses the segment of the same image to produce manipulated image by duplicating or concealing image regions. To remove suspicious traces of forgery, various attacks are applied over the tampered image which make forgery detection process too complicated. We propose a forgery detection technique in which Center Surround Extrema (CenSurE) detector is applied for keypoint detection from images. To compute keypoint descriptors, Local Image Permutation Interval Descriptor (LIPID) is used. Keypoint matching is performed using k-Nearest Neighbor (k-NN) technique with utilization of k-d tree and Best-Bin-First (BBF) search method. Grouping over keypoints is performed using Fuzzy C-Means (FCM) clustering. We apply Random Sample Consensus (RANSAC) algorithm to remove outliers obtained during forgery detection process. Experimental results show that proposed technique can effectively detect forged images containing reflection and non-affine transformation with geometrical attacks. In addition, proposed approach also shows robustness against erosion, dilation, RGB color addition, zoom motion blur, JPEG compression, spread noise addition, and multiple copy-move attacks. Proposed scheme consumes least time in forgery detection as compared to state-of-the-art methods. \'a9 2021 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Center Surround Extrema detector;  Copy-move image forgery;  Digital image forensics;  Fuzzy C-Means clustering;  Local Image Permutation Interval Descriptor;  Passive authentication\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 8\
Javed, A.R., Jalil, Z., Zehra, W., Gadekallu, T.R., Suh, D.Y., Piran, M.J.\
57215024733;26321662600;57223146485;57217062630;7202639547;46161521300;\
A comprehensive survey on digital video forensics: Taxonomy, challenges, and future directions\
(2021) Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence, 106, art. no. 104456, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85115133075&doi=10.1016%2fj.engappai.2021.104456&partnerID=40&md5=23ffd8d7d1b2856e3e35a22b0e6cb3e1\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.engappai.2021.104456\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Cyber Security, Air University, Islamabad, Pakistan; \
National Center for Cyber Security, Air University, Islamabad, Pakistan; \
School of Information Technology and Engineering, Vellore Institute of TechnologyTamil Nadu, India; \
Department of Electronics and Information Convergence Engineering, Kyung Hee University, Yongin, South Korea; \
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Sejong University, Seoul, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: With the explosive advancements in smartphone technology, video uploading/downloading has become a routine part of digital social networking. Video contents contain valuable information as more incidents are being recorded now than ever before. In this paper, we present a comprehensive survey on information extraction from video contents and forgery detection. In this context, we review various modern techniques such as computer vision and different machine learning (ML) algorithms including deep learning (DL) proposed for video forgery detection. Furthermore, we discuss the persistent general, resource, legal, and technical challenges, as well as challenges in using DL for the problem at hand, such as the theory behind DL, CV, limited datasets, real-time processing, and the challenges with the emergence of ML techniques used with the Internet of Things (IoT)-based heterogeneous devices. Moreover, this survey presents prominent video analysis products used for video forensics investigation and analysis. In summary, this survey provides a detailed and broader investigation about information extraction and forgery detection in video contents under one umbrella, which was not presented yet to the best of our knowledge. \'a9 2021 The Author(s)\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Computer vision (CV);  Deep learning (DL);  Digital forensics;  Evidence extraction;  Forgery detection;  Legal aspects;  Machine learning (ML);  Video forensics;  Video forgery\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Short Survey\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1193 **SELECTED** SID: 53\
Olukoya, O.\
57208391976;\
Distilling blockchain requirements for digital investigation platforms\
(2021) Journal of Information Security and Applications, 62, art. no. 102969, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85114915719&doi=10.1016%2fj.jisa.2021.102969&partnerID=40&md5=e82b48612feb4b0cf9b3d92aee1b3971\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.jisa.2021.102969\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science, University College Dublin, Ireland; \
School of Electronics, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Queen's University Belfast, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: When handling a security incident, there is a lot of information that needs to be stored, processed, and analyzed. As a result of the volume of information and the necessity to deal with a security incident investigation promptly, different forensic tools have been developed to provide cyber threat intelligence and security incident response management platforms and solutions. These platforms enable responders to effectively collaborate in identifying and investigating incidents, manage their work on a case from creation until resolution or completion, and automate incident response tasks with the external threat information. Since incident response services are a growing priority at organizations, there is a pressing need for a trustworthy and transparent way to maintain the authenticity and integrity of investigative actions that is independently verifiable. Generally, security incident case management allows a security analyst to add related logs. Asides from the possibility of a log being deleted, it is difficult to audit the log for traceability and provenance if a user decides to be malicious. To address this problem, we propose utilizing a blockchain ledger for security investigative actions and associated metadata by extracting requirements for cybersecurity incident response from the models gathered through the analysis of an open-source incident management platform. We demonstrate the applicability of the proposed techniques and methods by investigating a case scenario of evidence actions within TheHive security incident response platform (SIRP). \'a9 2021 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Blockchain integration;  Chain of custody;  Digital forensics;  Evidence provenance and integrity;  Incident response\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1194\
Rogers, M.K., Seigfried-Spellar, K.C., Bates, S., Rux, K.\
7402696818;36680550400;57226423730;57226428722;\
Online child pornography offender risk assessment using digital forensic artifacts: The need for a hybrid model\
(2021) Journal of Forensic Sciences, 66 (6), pp. 2354-2361. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85111544258&doi=10.1111%2f1556-4029.14820&partnerID=40&md5=05bf9d624fb554bdf28e375d7661bcc3\
\
DOI: 10.1111/1556-4029.14820\
AFFILIATIONS: Cyberforensics Lab, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, United States\
ABSTRACT: The prevalence of online child pornography is a major societal issue. The criminal justice system has struggled with assessing the risk of individuals involved in online sexual offenses against children, especially when it involves the possession of child pornography. Research suggests there are different categories of offenders involved in this type of behavior (e.g., Online Child Pornography Offenders, Dual Offenders, Contact Offenders), with each category having different motivations, contributing factors, and levels of risk to re-offend or escalate their criminal behavior to more serious offenses (i.e., collecting pictures to contact offending). Determining the risk that individuals involved in online sexual offenses against children pose to re-offend or escalate their criminal behavior has been problematic. Traditional sexual offender risk measures have lower predictive validity when dealing with online child pornography offenders. This article discusses the need for a formalized hybrid risk assessment model that combines the current online sex offenses against children risk measures with digital forensics artifact analysis. The evidence derived from digital forensics artifact analysis can supplement the predictive risk factors obtained from these risk assessment tools, thus increasing the reliability and validity of the risk assessment. \'a9 2021 American Academy of Forensic Sciences\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: child sexual exploitation material;  digital forensics;  forensic artifacts;  offender behavior;  online sexual offenses against children;  risk assessment\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1195\
Hwang, M.K., Park, H.J., Park, S.W., Har, D.H.\
57226194335;57226731140;57209175583;8293531600;\
Original status of smartphone video by analyzing the data volume according to the recording time\
(2021) Journal of Forensic Sciences, 66 (6), pp. 2444-2455. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85110866660&doi=10.1111%2f1556-4029.14810&partnerID=40&md5=3b9ea614aaf3311843118e94542bd844\
\
DOI: 10.1111/1556-4029.14810\
AFFILIATIONS: Forensic Image Analysis Laboratory, Incheon, South Korea; \
Chung-Ang University, Seoul, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Most video media are filmed and distributed through cell phones due to the improved camera performance and high ease of use. However, due to their digital nature, the original status of cell phone videos used as evidence must be verified. For this analysis, we devised a method to read whether the videos are original or not and whether they are second-order encoded or higher via a data-rate analysis over the recording time of the smartphone videos. For this study, videos taken by smartphones were analyzed through experiments, demonstrating that a constant amount of data is generated over time, regardless of the scene. We also demonstrated that a unique pattern exists between the time taken and the amount of data output, depending on the smartphone manufacturer and model. Furthermore, for quantitative numerical computations on unique patterns, we output the amount of data per second generated by each model. Furthermore, the amount of data per second for each model varies when encoded using secondary or higher compression. This method allowed us to use the data-per-second analysis techniques proposed in this study to determine whether the videos taken by smartphones are original. \'a9 2021 American Academy of Forensic Sciences\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: digital forensics;  edit video identification;  encoding video;  multimedia forensics;  original video;  video compression\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 9\
Shim, B.S., Shin, Y.S., Park, S.W., Hou, J.-U.\
57345535100;57345682800;57345221400;56218423300;\
SI3DP: Source Identification Challenges and Benchmark for Consumer-Level 3D Printer Forensics\
(2021) MM 2021 - Proceedings of the 29th ACM International Conference on Multimedia, pp. 1721-1729. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85119356694&doi=10.1145%2f3474085.3475316&partnerID=40&md5=9a98e03b3409705fe47fef971804c5f4\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3474085.3475316\
AFFILIATIONS: Hallym University, Chuncheon, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: This paper lays the foundation for a new 3D content market by establishing a content security framework using databases and benchmarks for in-depth research on source identification of 3D printed objects. The proposed benchmark, SI3DP dataset, offers a more generalized multimedia forensic technique. Assuming that identifying the source of a 3D printing object can arise from various invisible traces occurring in the printing process, we obtain close-up images, full object images from 252 printed objects from 18 different printing setups. We then propose a benchmark with five challenging tasks such as device-level identification and scan-and-reprint detection using the provided dataset. Our baseline shows that the printer type and its attributes can be identified based on the microscopic difference of surface texture. Contrary to the conventional belief that only microscopic views such as close-up images are useful to identify printer model, we also achieved a certain level of performance even at a relatively macroscopic point of view. We then propose a multitask-multimodal architecture for device-level identification task to exploit rich knowledge from different image modality and task. The SI3DP dataset can promote future in-depth research studies related to digital forensics and intellectual property protection. \'a9 2021 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: 3d printing;  additive manufacturing;  multi-task learning;  multimedia forensics;  source identification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 10\
You, J., Li, Y., Zhou, J., Hua, Z., Sun, W., Li, X.\
57344768000;55946696800;55938080200;56022005600;57198850198;26660668800;\
A Transformer based Approach for Image Manipulation Chain Detection\
(2021) MM 2021 - Proceedings of the 29th ACM International Conference on Multimedia, pp. 3510-3517. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85119345896&doi=10.1145%2f3474085.3475513&partnerID=40&md5=d254f6ae5bbd4281296fa0e8b9707523\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3474085.3475513\
AFFILIATIONS: Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, China; \
University of Macau, Macau; \
Harbin Institute of Technology, Shenzhen, China\
ABSTRACT: Image manipulation chain detection aims to identify the existence of involved operations and also their orders, playing an important role in multimedia forensics and image analysis. However,all the existing algorithms model the manipulation chain detection as a classification problem, and can only detect chains containing up to two operations. Due to the exponentially increased solution space and the complex interactions among operations, how to reveal a long chain from a processed image remains a long-standing problem in the multimedia forensic community. To address this challenge, in this paper, we propose a new direction for manipulation chain detection. Different from previous works, we treat the manipulation chain detection as a machine translation problem rather than a classification one, where we model the chains as the sentences of a target language, and each word serves as one possible image operation. Specifically, we first transform the manipulated image into a deep feature space, and further model the traces left by the manipulation chain as a sentence of a latent source language. Then, we propose to detect the manipulation chain through learning the mapping from the source language to the target one under a machine translation framework. Our method can detect manipulation chains consisting of up to five operations, and we obtain promising results on both the short-chain detection and the long-chain detection. \'a9 2021 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: image forensics;  machine translation;  manipulation chain detection;  transformer\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 11\
Sathish Kumar, N., Kasiselvanathan, M., Vimal, S.P.\
50861767500;56741533000;57194135775;\
Image Splice Detection based on Illumination Inconsistency Principle and Machine learning Algorithms for Forensic Applications\
(2021) Proceedings - 1st International Conference on Smart Technologies Communication and Robotics, STCR 2021, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85119408828&doi=10.1109%2fSTCR51658.2021.9587928&partnerID=40&md5=7512e3b1d6139c2f061d9da288fea8ae\
\
DOI: 10.1109/STCR51658.2021.9587928\
AFFILIATIONS: Sri Ramakrishna Engineering College, Tamilnadu, India\
ABSTRACT: Image tampering is a technique by which the image and visual properties are altered for many reasons like for enjoyment, for creating false evidence, for publicity etc. This can be done by the application of hardware, software and editing tools. A performance comparison and a novel approach for verifying the image authenticity through the exploration of the illuminant based transformed spaces which is given by Illuminant Maps (IM) is discussed in this paper. A method is proposed for detecting the image splice. For acquiring statistical-based information two algorithms are applied namely Generalized Grayworld Estimates (GGE) and Inverse Intensity Chromaticity (IIC). The various features thus obtained through image descriptors like color, shape and texture features. The proposed method provides a solution for detecting the image tampering. Two different data sets DA1 and DA2 are considered for the experiments and are tested. The feature extraction algorithms are tested namely SVM, KNN, GLCM and proposed method using GLCM and SURF. The proposed work produced a better result of 83.50%, 82.55% and 84.50% in terms of accuracy, sensitivity and specificity respectively comparing to the classical methods of image forgery detection. \'a9 2021 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Forensics;  Generalized Grayworld Estimates (GGE);  Gray Level Co-occurrence Matrix (GLCM);  Illuminant Maps (IM);  Inverse Intensity Chromaticity space (IIC);  Kernel Nearest Neighbour classifier (KNN);  Speed Up Robust Feature (SURF)\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 12\
Lee, K., Choi, J.-H., Park, J., Lee, S.\
57349403000;55722487200;24529123400;36063408400;\
Your car is recording: Metadata-driven dashcam analysis system\
(2021) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 38, art. no. 301131, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85119627462&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2021.301131&partnerID=40&md5=40865d164e4e6d4177e857cfee0f6841\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2021.301131\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Cybersecurity, Korea University, 145 Anam-ro, Seongbuk-Gu, Seoul, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Dashcam as an on-board camera is useful as a source of potential digital evidence not only to reveal the truth of a traffic accident but also to explain the situation of a crime scene as a moving surveillance camera. It stores multimedia data as well as a variety of additional information needed for accident investigation including time, location, speed, accelerometer, etc. Under these circumstances, various studies have been conducted for dashcam forensics, but most of them focused mainly on extracting and interpreting visual video frames. In this paper, we identify and classify various metadata generated by 14 dashcam models produced by 11 manufacturers. Furthermore, we develop a normalized database schema to manage multiple different metadata and then discuss several dashcam forensic activities based on it. In addition, a prototype open-source tool is presented to support the proposed metadata-driven dashcam forensics. \'a9 2021 The Authors\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Container;  Dashcam;  Digital forensics;  Footage;  Metadata;  onBoardCam\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 13\
Lee, S., Park, J., Hwang, H., Lee, S., Lee, S., Jeong, D.\
57347988100;24529123400;57348145000;57347515000;36063408400;56585345100;\
Forensic analysis of ReFS journaling\
(2021) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 38, art. no. 301136, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85119509993&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2021.301136&partnerID=40&md5=e95fffc631b1c737910b15972f3bd0de\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2021.301136\
AFFILIATIONS: The Affiliated Institute of ETRI, South Korea; \
Institute of Cyber Security & Privacy (ICSP), Korea University, Seoul, 02841, South Korea; \
College of Police and Criminal Justice, Dongguk University, Seoul, 04620, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Since the analysis of file system is a fundamental step in forensic investigation, file system forensics has been steadily researched. Especially, NTFS forensics has been mainstream research as it is used by Windows, a globally most-used operating system. When investigating NTFS, journaling analysis is an important procedure as it can identify which files are created, modified, and deleted. Meanwhile, Microsoft developed the Resilient File System (ReFS), which is also used in Windows, to maximize data availability; ReFS is also expected to be a popular file system. Similar to the $Logfile and the $UsnJrnl of NTFS, there are artifacts in ReFS: the Logfile and the Change Journal that document information regarding changes to the system. In this paper, we present the structure and operation of the Logfile and the Change Journal. By kernel reverse engineering, we identify that the ReFS artifacts related to journaling are quite different from the NTFS artifacts; the ReFS artifacts use new record formats, named Log Record and USN_RECORD_V3, and the metadata of ReFS handling journaling files is distinct from that of NTFS. Through experiments, we identify logging patterns of transaction record and examine the mechanism of ReFS journaling. In this process, we enhance the knowledge of the metadata and structure of ReFS presented by previous research. Based on the result of our research, we also propose a forensic methodology of ReFS journaling and develop a tool, Awesome ReFS Investigation tool (ARIN), which is an open-source for analyzing the ReFS journal. These outcomes may provide considerable assistance to a forensic examiner trying to investigate ReFS volumes. \'a9 2021 The Authors\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: File system;  Journaling;  Logfile;  ReFS;  Transaction\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 14\
Du, X., Hargreaves, C., Sheppard, J., Scanlon, M.\
57193685507;24512275200;57204021358;52264702800;\
TraceGen: User activity emulation for digital forensic test image generation\
(2021) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 38, art. no. 301133, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85119476863&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2021.301133&partnerID=40&md5=99bdbc3d50eac1f85eeab2e0be6f2e36\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2021.301133\
AFFILIATIONS: Forensics and Security Research Group, University College Dublin, Ireland; \
Department of Computer Science, University of Oxford, United Kingdom; \
Department of Computing and Mathematics, Waterford Institute of Technology, Ireland\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensic test images are commonly used across a variety of digital forensic use cases including education and training, tool testing and validation, proficiency testing, malware analysis, and research and development. Using real digital evidence for these purposes is often not viable or permissible, especially when factoring in the ethical and in some cases legal considerations of working with individuals' personal data. Furthermore, when using real data it is not usually known what actions were performed when, i.e., what was the \'91ground truth\'92. The creation of synthetic digital forensic test images typically involves an arduous, time-consuming process of manually performing a list of actions, or following a \'91story\'92 to generate artefacts in a subsequently imaged disk. Besides the manual effort and time needed in executing the relevant actions in the scenario, there is often little room to build a realistic volume of non-pertinent wear-and-tear or \'91background noise\'92 on the suspect device, meaning the resulting disk images are inherently limited and to a certain extent simplistic. This work presents the TraceGen framework, an automated system focused on the emulation of user actions to create realistic and comprehensive artefacts in an auditable and reproducible manner. The framework consists of a series of actions contained within scripts that are executed both externally and internally to a target virtual machine. These actions use existing automation APIs to emulate a real user's behaviour on a Windows system to generate realistic and comprehensive artefacts. These actions can be quickly scripted together to form complex stories or to emulate wear-and-tear on the test image. In addition to the development of the framework, evaluation is also performed in terms of the ability to produce background artefacts at scale, and also the realism of the artefacts compared with their human-generated counterparts. \'a9 2021 The Authors\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Evidence planting;  Forensic disk image creation;  Forensic education;  Tool testing and validation;  User emulation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 15\
Manisha, Karunakar, A.K., Li, C.-T.\
57216755959;23396973300;26648782200;\
Identification of source social network of digital images using deep neural network\
(2021) Pattern Recognition Letters, 150, pp. 17-25. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85111001184&doi=10.1016%2fj.patrec.2021.06.019&partnerID=40&md5=6e40b2542b80398fe6a4ee6cd7facd09\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.patrec.2021.06.019\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Applications, Manipal Institute of Technology, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka  576104, India; \
School of Information Technology, Deakin University, Geelong, 3216, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Identification of image provenance is one of the crucial tasks to be tackled in the field of image forensics. Due to the rapid growth in technology, a huge amount of digital images are shared among users through social networks which facilitates many malicious activities. Establishing the provenance of downloaded images is an important task that could help focus investigations in a specific direction. Such a task is based on the identification of unique fingerprints that are imprinted on images by the social network during the process of upload and download. Based on this, we propose a deep learning based approach that learns the unique traces from the images transformed to the discrete cosine and wavelet domains, to investigate whether the image under test originates directly from a camera or from a specific social network site. The proposed method is able to efficiently identify the specific social network of provenance of the downloaded images and outperforms the state-of-the-art techniques. The encouraging results on images represented in the wavelet domain obtained for the well-known datasets, namely, VISION, IPLAB, and FODB sheds the light into a new way of identifying the image provenance. \'a9 2021\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Deep learning;  Image forensics;  Provenance inference;  Social network;  Source identification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 16\
Liao, X., Huang, Z., Peng, L., Qiao, T.\
26665606800;57218449336;57219442183;56177583700;\
First step towards parameters estimation of image operator chain\
(2021) Information Sciences, 575, pp. 231-247. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85108629056&doi=10.1016%2fj.ins.2021.06.045&partnerID=40&md5=4abdfd6beee5db05afc0aca2a53c1e0f\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.ins.2021.06.045\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering, Hunan University, Changsha, 410082, China; \
School of Cyberspace, Hangzhou Dianzi University, Hangzhou, 310000, China\
ABSTRACT: Many effective techniques have recently been proposed to estimate the parameters of specific tampering operations. Most of them consider the situation in which an image is tampered with by only a single operation. However, in reality, multiple operations are used to falsify an image. Because the tampering traces of previous operations may be weakened or eliminated by later operations, it is difficult for the prior algorithms, each of which was developed for a single operation, to detect all tampering operations. In this paper, we propose a new method for estimating the parameters of operations in different manipulation chains. A framework is presented to investigate the correlation between multiple operations, which divides the degree of correlation into uncoupled and coupled operations. Then, two cases of certain operator chains with different degrees of correlation are adopted to reveal the assessment framework. Under this framework, we design well-directed features to estimate the parameters for each operator chain. Finally, the experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed framework. \'a9 2021 Elsevier Inc.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Image forensics;  Operator chains;  Parameters estimation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 17\
Yang, Q., Yu, D., Zhang, Z., Yao, Y., Chen, L.\
57218480612;57225854974;57221311192;57072148100;56111642700;\
Spatiotemporal Trident Networks: Detection and Localization of Object Removal Tampering in Video Passive Forensics\
(2021) IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, 31 (10), pp. 4131-4144. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85098775969&doi=10.1109%2fTCSVT.2020.3046240&partnerID=40&md5=59edf9faa0804cd15ae91d186490c0bb\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TCSVT.2020.3046240\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science and Technology, Hangzhou Dianzi University, Hangzhou, China; \
School of Cyberspace, Hangzhou Dianzi University, Hangzhou, China\
ABSTRACT: With the development of video and image processing technology, the field of video tampering forensics is facing enormous challenges. Specifically, as the fundamental basis of judicial forensics, passive forensics for object removal video forgery is particularly essential. To extract tampering traces in video more sufficiently, the author proposed a spatiotemporal trident network based on the spatial rich model (SRM) and 3D convolution (C3D), which provides three branches and can theoretically improve the detection and localization accuracy of tampered regions. Based on the spatiotemporal trident network, a temporal detector and a spatial locator were designed to detect and locate the tampered regions in the temporal and spatial domains of videos. For the temporal detector, 3D CNNs were employed in three branches as the encoders and a bidirectional long short-Term memory (BiLSTM) as the decoder. For the spatial locator, a backbone network named C3D-ResNet12 was designed as the encoder of the three branches, and the region proposal networks (RPNs) were employed as the decoders in three branches. In addition, we optimized the loss functions of the above two algorithms based on focal loss and GIoU loss. The experimental results revealed the effectiveness of spatiotemporal detection and localization algorithms: for temporal forgery detection, the accuracy of the frame classification increased to 99+%; for spatial forgery localization, the successful localization rate of the tampered regions in forged frames reached 96+%, and the mean intersection over union of the located tampered regions and the real tampered regions reached 62+%. \'a9 1991-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: object removal tampering;  spatiotemporal localization;  target detection based on 3D CNN;  trident network;  Video passive forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 18\
Abir, N.A.M., Warif, N.B.A., Zainal, N.\
57338981900;57189379135;55899428300;\
An Evaluation of Patch Match-based Copy-Move Forgery Detection (CMFD) on Social Media Images\
(2021) 3rd IEEE International Conference on Artificial Intelligence in Engineering and Technology, IICAIET 2021, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85119099572&doi=10.1109%2fIICAIET51634.2021.9573571&partnerID=40&md5=64b16003a1b5b70e9dd47c33833b8805\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IICAIET51634.2021.9573571\
AFFILIATIONS: Universiti Tun Hussein Onn Malaysia, Faculty of Computer Science Information Technology, Batu Pahat, Malaysia; \
Universiti Tun Hussein Onn Malaysia, Faculty of Science Computer Information Technology, Batu Pahat, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: As society is ever more dependent on technology and digital media, the law depends more on digital forensics to find, keep, evaluate, and analyze digital evidence such as digital images and digital documents. The effective image editing application that constantly improves allows the user to change the image material or alter the image effortlessly. Copy-move forgery (CMF) is a very difficult form of forgery to detect. CMF involves copying part of an image and pasting it into one or more regions of the same image. However, the existing Copy-Move Forgery Detection (CMFD) method was only utilized on the existing image dataset, while social media images are on the common media today. In this paper, the PatchMatch-based CMFD method is evaluated with different platforms of social media images: Facebook, WhatsApp, and Twitter. The average performance generated by the PatchMatch-based CMFD method is 91% for the existing CMFD dataset. By replacing the dataset with the social media images dataset, the average performance slightly decreases to 84%. \'a9 2021 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: copy-move forgery detection;  image forensic;  patch-match;  social media\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 19\
Jones, G.M., Winster, S.G., Valarmathie, P.\
57289106800;55236532400;35094609100;\
Integrated Approach to Detect Cyberbullying Text: Mobile Device Forensics Data\
(2021) Computer Systems Science and Engineering, 40 (3), pp. 963-978. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85116633524&doi=10.32604%2fCSSE.2022.019483&partnerID=40&md5=b6415b7a0a548075e4aef5ff8a4cf74a\
\
DOI: 10.32604/CSSE.2022.019483\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Saveetha Engineering College, Chennai, 602105, India; \
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, School of Computing, SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Chengalpattu, 603203, India; \
Department of Information Technology, Saveetha Engineering College, Chennai, 602105, India\
ABSTRACT: Mobile devices and social networks provide communication opportunities among the young generation, which increases vulnerability and cybercrimes activities. A recent survey reports that cyberbullying and cyberstalking constitute a developing issue among youngsters. This paper focuses on cyberbullying detection in mobile phone text by retrieving with the help of an oxygen forensics toolkit. We describe the data collection using forensics technique and a corpus of suspicious activities like cyberbullying annotation from mobile phones and carry out a sequence of binary classification experiments to determine cyberbullying detection. We use forensics techniques, Machine Learning (ML), and Deep Learning (DL) algorithms to exploit suspicious patterns to help the forensics investigation where every evidence contributes to the case. Experiments on a real-time dataset reveal better results for the detection of cyberbullying content. The Random Forest in ML approach produces 87% of accuracy without SMOTE technique, whereas the value of F1Score produces a good result with SMOTE technique. The LSTM has 92% of validation accuracy in the DL algorithm compared with Dense and BiLSTM algorithms. \'a9 2021 CRL Publishing. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyberbullying;  Investigation model;  Machine learning;  Mobile forensics;  Suspicious pattern\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 20 **SELECTED** SID: 1\
Manral, B., Somani, G.\
57211990868;24833340100;\
Establishing forensics capabilities in the presence of superuser insider threats\
(2021) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 38, art. no. 301263, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85111549781&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2021.301263&partnerID=40&md5=04cfd4a83eb734b50548d0d2e7ae4060\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2021.301263\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Central University of Rajasthan, Ajmer, India\
ABSTRACT: Insider threats are paving ways to the headlines of security articles and reports across the globe. It's a common practice across organizations to have designated employees as administrators with complete administrative or superuser capabilities for the IT infrastructure. In this paper, we argue that superusers with all the administrative and access control capabilities may escape from the scrutiny of forensic investigation and may also become a major obstacle in the process of evidence collection. Through this work, we open a discussion on forensic aspects of insider threats with a particular focus on superuser forensics. We identify the anti-forensic administrative privileges of the superusers and discuss the sheer forensic repercussions with the help of four generic insider threat cases. As our primary contribution, we identify and define the four important requirements for a superuser-immune solution. These requirements include denying and logical access to the potential forensic artifacts, timely synchronization and integrity of evidential artifacts, and ensuring the execution of legitimate code/service and notification capabilities. Based on the identified requirements, we propose a forensic compliant mechanism, \'93Log-of-logs server\'94 to countermeasure the inherent anti-forensic capabilities of the superuser. We showcase that the proposed framework effectively helps in establishing forensic capabilities for superusers. We also present the security analysis of our framework and discuss its forensic feasibility. \'a9 2021 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Insider threat forensics;  Insider threats;  Superuser;  Superuser forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 21\
Baracchi, D., Shullani, D., Iuliani, M., Giani, D., Piva, A.\
57202989097;57126389800;56685528500;57226366638;7005293392;\
Camera Obscura: Exploiting in-camera processing for image counter forensics\
(2021) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 38, art. no. 301213, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85111260681&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2021.301213&partnerID=40&md5=b9fd60355184e041a2bcee3b40892737\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2021.301213\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Engineering, University of Florence, Via di S. Marta, 3, Florence, 50139, Italy; \
FORLAB, Multimedia Forensics Laboratory, PIN Scrl, Piazza G. Ciardi, 25, Prato, 59100, Italy\
ABSTRACT: For the last two decades Image Forensics has been providing an arsenal of forensic tools to detect tampered images. At the same time, anti-forensics technologies kept evolving to mislead forensic detectors. Such attacks are generally designed to affect a single forensic trace (e.g. JPEG compression, sensor patter noise, histogram statistics) without considering that the image alteration can negatively affect other traces, thus making harder to mimic multiple statistics of natural images. Nevertheless, performing of several attacks can ruin the image quality. In this paper we introduce Camera Obscura, a method that, given a tampered picture, generates a pristine image with native camera metadata, JPEG structure, Quantization Tables, Preview, Thumbnails, their corresponding Quantization Tables, single compression statistics and any in-camera (even proprietary) processing. The attack is performed by exploiting and extending Magic Lantern, an alternative camera firmware, to perform in-camera image buffer substitution. As opposed to available image anti-forensic techniques, Camera Obscura accurately reproduces multiple image statistics in one attack with a limited effect on global image quality. With these characteristics, it can be applied for many different applications such as injecting reference image statistics into a computer generated image, exchange the supposed source of a given image or hide any signal-based editing operation. \'a9 2021 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Image forensics;  Image tampering;  Magic Lantern;  Raw image\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 22\
Stoykova, R.\
57204611393;\
Digital evidence: Unaddressed threats to fairness and the presumption of innocence\
(2021) Computer Law and Security Review, 42, art. no. 105575, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85111004495&doi=10.1016%2fj.clsr.2021.105575&partnerID=40&md5=670af58d906162e71717ce4cbd96e2b1\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.clsr.2021.105575\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Transboundary Legal Studies, Faculty of Law, University of Groningen, Netherlands; \
Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Gj\'f8vik, Norway\
ABSTRACT: Contemporary criminal investigation assisted by computing technology imposes challenges to the right to a fair trial and the scientific validity of digital evidence. This paper identifies three categories of unaddressed threats to fairness and the presumption of innocence during investigations \'96 (i) the inappropriate and inconsistent use of technology; (ii) old procedural guarantees, which are not adapted to contemporary digital evidence processes and services; (iii) and the lack of reliability testing in digital forensics practice. Further, the solutions that have been suggested to overcome these issues are critically reviewed to identify their shortcomings. Ultimately, the paper argues for the need of legislative intervention and enforcement of standards and validation procedures for digital evidence in order to protect innocent suspects and all parties in the criminal proceedings from the negative consequences of technology-assisted investigations. \'a9 2021 The Authors\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Fair trial;  Presumption of innocence;  Reliability\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 23\
Rouhi, R., Bertini, F., Montesi, D.\
56389576700;56984138600;6701520375;\
User profiles\'92 image clustering for digital investigations\
(2021) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 38, art. no. 301171, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85107765641&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2021.301171&partnerID=40&md5=b1c971885baf7832523cec30d93757b2\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2021.301171\
AFFILIATIONS: Universit\'e9 de Lorraine, CNRS, LORIA, Nancy, F-54000, France; \
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Bologna, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Sharing images on Social Network (SN) platforms is one of the most widespread behaviors which may cause privacy-intrusive and illegal content to be widely distributed. Clustering the images shared through SN platforms according to the acquisition cameras embedded in smartphones is regarded as a significant task in forensic investigations of cybercrimes. The Sensor Pattern Noise (SPN) caused by camera sensor imperfections due to the manufacturing process has been proved to be an effective and robust camera fingerprint that can be used for several tasks, such as digital evidence analysis, smartphone fingerprinting and user profile linking as well. Clustering the images uploaded by users on their profiles is a way of fingerprinting the camera sources and it is considered a challenging task since users may upload different types of images, i.e., the images taken by users\'92 smartphones (taken images) and single images from different sources, cropped images, or generic images from the Web (shared images). The shared images make a perturbation in the clustering task, as they do not usually present sufficient characteristics of SPN of their related sources. Moreover, they are not directly referable to the user's device so they have to be detected and removed from the clustering process. In this paper, we propose a user profiles\'92 image clustering method without prior knowledge about the type and number of the camera sources. The hierarchical graph-based method clusters both types of images, taken images and shared images. The strengths of our method include overcoming large-scale image datasets, the presence of shared images that perturb the clustering process and the loss of image details caused by the process of content compression on SN platforms. The method is evaluated on the VISION dataset, which is a public benchmark including images from 35 smartphones. The dataset is perturbed by 3000 images, simulating the shared images from different sources except for users\'92 smartphones. Experimental results confirm the robustness of the proposed method against perturbed datasets and its effectiveness in the image clustering. \'a9 2021 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Camera fingerprinting;  Digital evidence analysis;  Digital investigations;  sensor Pattern noise;  Social network;  Unsupervised learning\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 24\
AlZahrani, A., Wani, M.A., Bhat, W.A.\
57197006041;57202132834;55199596100;\
Forensic analysis of Twitch video streaming activities on Android\
(2021) Journal of Forensic Sciences, 66 (5), pp. 1721-1741. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85107206494&doi=10.1111%2f1556-4029.14750&partnerID=40&md5=9b12feb07aa6606828b00db91eb99b42\
\
DOI: 10.1111/1556-4029.14750\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Computer & Information Systems, Islamic University of Madinah, Madinah, Saudi Arabia; \
Department of Computer Sciences, University of Kashmir, Srinagar, India\
ABSTRACT: Video streaming abuses range from copyright infringement and piracy to child sexual abuse and murder. This paper performs proactive forensics of Twitch video streaming activities on Android devices. We designed our experiments using a methodology based on black-box testing principles and conducted them on Android devices using a forensic framework. The results of our experiments suggest that forensic investigators can extract evidences of streams broadcast, shared, and watched by the user, and associate them with the Twitch account of the user. We detail all the recoverable artifacts of forensic significance, provide mechanisms to extract them based on the identified anchors, and interpret their significance in forensic investigations. \'a9 2021 American Academy of Forensic Sciences\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android;  digital forensics;  smartphone;  streaming;  Twitch;  video\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 25\
Marshall, A.M.\
56232084800;\
Digital forensic tool verification: An evaluation of options for establishing trustworthiness\
(2021) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 38, art. no. 301181, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85106880206&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2021.301181&partnerID=40&md5=e8d3c56be99aa7cd2c2726850284f3e3\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2021.301181\
AFFILIATIONS: n-gate ltd., N. Yorkshire, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Marshall and Paige (2018)2018) reported a reluctance, on the part of tool producers, to allow scrutiny of their internal testing processes and results. The absence of evidence of tool verification increases the work required for method validation to comply with regulatory and international standards requirements. The author presents a range of models for tool verification and evaluates them in terms of estimated risk and cost to end-user and provider. A preferred option is identified. \'a9 2021 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forensic tool development;  Forensic tool testing;  Forensic tool verification;  ISO 17025;  ISO/IEC 27037;  ISO/IEC 27041;  ISO/IEC 27042;  Method validation;  Quality standards;  Software trustworthiness\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 26\
Wang, A., Gao, X.\
57205762977;8533831100;\
A variable scale case-based reasoning method for evidence location in digital forensics\
(2021) Future Generation Computer Systems, 122, pp. 209-219. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85104487079&doi=10.1016%2fj.future.2021.03.019&partnerID=40&md5=be9c89f0550f8272b8028c1a49bfa6f0\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.future.2021.03.019\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Humanities and Social Science, University of Science and Technology Beijing, No.30 Xueyuan Road, Beijing, 100083, China; \
School of Economics and Management, University of Science and Technology Beijing, No.30 Xueyuan Road, Beijing, 100083, China\
ABSTRACT: With the increasing usage of information technology on the criminal side, the digital forensic analysis, especially multimedia forensics, becomes an emerging technique for cybercrime investigators to improve examination efficiency. The study focuses on the digital triage problem for evidence location during the automatic forensic process. After defining the multi-scale knowledge base for storing digital forensic investigators\'92 prior knowledge, a variable scale case-based reasoning method (VSCBR) is proposed to support investigators predicting evidential areas. The variable-scale clustering algorithm based on the scale transformation strategy (VSC-STS) is also put forward, which could identify highly similar past cases containing candidate evidence in the case reuse and revise phase. A case study is established using a real 15.9 GB bidding case dataset, which contains both text bidding documents and image technical drawings. Numerical experimental results show that the validation of the proposed VSC-STS is significantly improved compared with the traditional single-scale clustering algorithm, and it is insensitive to the initial parameter threshold. Moreover, the proposed method VSCBR is able to help investigators locate suspicious rule-violating evidences in practice. \'a9 2021 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Case-based reasoning;  Digital forensics;  Scale transformation;  Variable-scale clustering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 27\
Djeghiour, S., Guerti, M.\
57202792397;24447832600;\
An improved MMSE estimator based modified group delay spectrum for Forensic Automatic Speaker Recognition\
(2021) International Journal of Speech Technology, 24 (3), pp. 687-699. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85102810065&doi=10.1007%2fs10772-021-09829-9&partnerID=40&md5=53a8700246df603f463289778686738f\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s10772-021-09829-9\
AFFILIATIONS: Signal and Communications Laboratory, Ecole Nationale Polytechnique, Algiers, Algeria\
ABSTRACT: This paper presents an improved speech enhancement algorithm called Minimum Mean Square Error (MMSE), based on the MODified Group Delay spectrum (MODGD), for Forensic Automatic Speaker Recognition (FASR) under noisy environments. This algorithm uses the MODGD instead of the amplitude spectrum, to compute the power spectrum of the noise-corrupt signal. In the proposed estimator, the MODGD retains most of the formants information. Therefore, it enhances the noisy speech signal with high quality even at extremely low Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR) levels. The evaluation of the improved algorithm in simulated FASR scenarios was performed by adding different noise levels, extracted from the NOISEX-92 database to the clean NIST2000-traces. The results obtained show that the proposed MMSE\'96MODGD estimator provides greater suppression of noise components in regions of low SNR than the MMSE estimator. In addition, there is a drastic reduction in Equal Proportion Probability (EPP) (the improvements are 1.84% for babble noise and 1.25% for factory and white noises), combining FASR techniques with the proposed MMSE\'96MODGD estimator than with the conventional estimator. \'a9 2021, The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Equal proportion probability;  Forensic Automatic Speaker Recognition;  MMSE estimator;  MODGD spectrum;  Noisy environments\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 28\
Daubner, L., Matulevi\uc0\u269 ius, R.\
57210978728;6507155888;\
Risk-Oriented Design Approach for Forensic-Ready Software Systems\
(2021) ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, art. no. 3470052, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85113244166&doi=10.1145%2f3465481.3470052&partnerID=40&md5=f5bc5c361ea06ac565dadf85fc33e46c\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3465481.3470052\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Informatics, Masaryk University Brno, Czech Republic; \
University of Tartu, Tartu, Estonia\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensic investigation is a complex and time-consuming activity in response to a cybersecurity incident or cybercrime to answer questions related to it. These typically are what happened, when, where, how, and who is responsible. However, answering them is often very laborious and sometimes outright impossible due to a lack of useable data. The forensic-ready software systems are designed to produce valuable on-point data for use in the investigation with potentially high evidence value. Still, the particular ways to develop these systems are currently not explored. This paper proposes consideration of forensic readiness within security risk management to refine specific requirements on forensic-ready software systems. The idea is to re-evaluate the taken security risk decisions with the aim to provide trustable data when the security measures fail. Additionally, it also considers possible disputes, which the digital evidence can solve. Our proposed approach, risk-oriented forensic-ready design, composes of two parts: (1) process guiding the identification of the requirements in the form of potential evidence sources, and (2) supporting BPMN notation capturing the potential evidence sources and their relationship. Together they are aimed to provide a high-level overview of the forensic-ready requirements within the system. Finally, the approach is demonstrated on an automated valet parking scenario, followed by a discussion regarding its impact and usefulness within the forensic readiness effort. \'a9 2021 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forensic Readiness;  Forensic-Ready Software Systems;  Information System Security Risk Management\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 29\
Galhuber, M., Luh, R.\
57226878515;24168909500;\
Time for Truth: Forensic Analysis of NTFS Timestamps\
(2021) ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, art. no. 3470016, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85113203222&doi=10.1145%2f3465481.3470016&partnerID=40&md5=6018d1268787fc86a618e323c09bf99a\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3465481.3470016\
AFFILIATIONS: St. Polten University of Applied Sciences, Austria\
ABSTRACT: Timeline forgery a widely employed technique in computer anti-forensics. Numerous freely available and easy-to-use tampering tools make it difficult for forensic scientists to collect legally valid evidence and reconstruct a credible timeline. At the same time, the large number of possible file operations performed by a genuine user can result in a wide variety of timestamp patterns that pose a challenge when reconstructing a chain of events, especially since application-specific discrepancies are often disregarded. In this paper, we investigate timestamp patterns resulting from common user operations in NTFS, providing a much needed update to the Windows time rules derived from older experiments. We show that specific applications can cause deviations from expected behavior and provide analysts with a comprehensive set of behavioral rules for all permissible NTFS file operations. Finally, we analyze the effect and efficacy of 7 third party timestamp forgery tools as well as a custom PowerShell solution, and highlight forensic artifacts pointing at data falsification. \'a9 2021 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: anti-forensics;  digital forensics;  NTFS;  timestamps;  windows\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 30\
Balon, T., Herlopian, K., Baggili, I., Grajeda-Mendez, C.\
57226889675;57226881413;37261105300;57226891257;\
Forensic Artifact Finder (ForensicAF): An Approach & Tool for Leveraging Crowd-Sourced Curated Forensic Artifacts\
(2021) ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, art. no. 3470051, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85113193408&doi=10.1145%2f3465481.3470051&partnerID=40&md5=88230a88afbe905d21bfe7fb6c9ae8c9\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3465481.3470051\
AFFILIATIONS: University of New Haven Connecticut, Institute of Technology, United States\
ABSTRACT: Current methods for artifact analysis and understanding depend on investigator expertise. Experienced and technically savvy examiners spend a lot of time reverse engineering applications while attempting to find crumbs they leave behind on systems. This takes away valuable time from the investigative process, and slows down forensic examination. Furthermore, when specific artifact knowledge is gained, it stays within the respective forensic units. To combat these challenges, we present ForensicAF, an approach for leveraging curated, crowd-sourced artifacts from the Artifact Genome Project (AGP). The approach has the overarching goal of uncovering forensically relevant artifacts from storage media. We explain our approach and construct it as an Autopsy Ingest Module. Our implementation focused on both File and Registry artifacts. We evaluated ForensicAF using systematic and random sampling experiments. While ForensicAF showed consistent results with registry artifacts across all experiments, it also revealed that deeper folder traversal yields more File Artifacts during data source ingestion. When experiments were conducted on case scenario disk images without apriori knowledge, ForensicAF uncovered artifacts of forensic relevance that help in solving those scenarios. We contend that ForensicAF is a promising approach for artifact extraction from storage media, and its utility will advance as more artifacts are crowd-sourced by AGP. \'a9 2021 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: AGP;  Artifact Genome Project;  Artifacts;  Autopsy;  CuFA;  Cyber Forensics;  Digital Forensics;  Triage\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 31\
Das, B.P., Biswal, M., Panigrahi, A., Okade, M.\
57336643100;57336373100;57336373200;55002834400;\
CNN based image resizing detection and resize factor classification for forensic applications\
(2021) 2nd International Conference on Range Technology, ICORT 2021, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85118989582&doi=10.1109%2fICORT52730.2021.9581459&partnerID=40&md5=466adc6b96702d9d801e6505f8d99dfa\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICORT52730.2021.9581459\
AFFILIATIONS: National Institute of Technology(NIT), Rourkela, India\
ABSTRACT: This paper investigates the forensic problem of resizing detection along with determining the factor by which the image underwent resizing in the uncompressed scenario. In many forensic applications, there is a need to understand the life history of the image under analysis since multimedia data is slowly becoming admissible as evidence in the court of law. The work reported in the paper is a novel attempt in this direction where a convolutional neural network is utilized with twin objectives. Firstly, to detect the presence of resizing by capturing the forensic clues left behind by the resizing operation and secondly, to determine by what factor the uncompressed image was resized which is a blind estimation. Experimental simulation utilizing the raise dataset shows very high accuracy scores for the proposed method. To check the robustness of the proposed network, an adversarial attack, namely Carlini and the Wagner attack, is a white-box attack aiming towards system failure. To the best of our knowledge, such a detailed forensic analysis with one of the adversarial attacks to validate the security of the proposed method has never been reported in the literature and is the novel contribution of the work. \'a9 2021 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Adversarial attack;  Carlini and Wagner attack;  CNN;  Resize factor determination;  Resizing forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 32 **SELECTED** SID: 2\
Nisioti, A., Loukas, G., Rass, S., Panaousis, E.\
57193677499;22951089500;15823011700;34877407700;\
Game-theoretic decision support for cyber forensic investigations\
(2021) Sensors, 21 (16), art. no. 5300, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85111731902&doi=10.3390%2fs21165300&partnerID=40&md5=418254d53b2e8e76b3a477525cbeb131\
\
DOI: 10.3390/s21165300\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computing and Mathematical Sciences, University of Greenwich, London, SE10 9BD, United Kingdom; \
Institut of Artificial Intelligence and Cybersecurity, Universitaet Klagenfurt, Universitatsstrasse 65-67, Klagenfurt, 9020, Austria\
ABSTRACT: The use of anti-forensic techniques is a very common practice that stealthy adversaries may deploy to minimise their traces and make the investigation of an incident harder by evading detection and attribution. In this paper, we study the interaction between a cyber forensic Investigator and a strategic Attacker using a game-theoretic framework. This is based on a Bayesian game of incomplete information played on a multi-host cyber forensics investigation graph of actions traversed by both players. The edges of the graph represent players\'92 actions across different hosts in a network. In alignment with the concept of Bayesian games, we define two Attacker types to represent their ability of deploying anti-forensic techniques to conceal their activities. In this way, our model allows the Investigator to identify the optimal investigating policy taking into consideration the cost and impact of the available actions, while coping with the uncertainty of the Attacker\'92s type and strategic decisions. To evaluate our model, we construct a realistic case study based on threat reports and data extracted from the MITRE ATT&CK STIX repository, Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS), and interviews with cyber-security practitioners. We use the case study to compare the performance of the proposed method against two other investigative methods and three different types of Attackers. \'a9 2021 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Bayesian game;  Cyber forensics;  Decision support;  Digital forensics;  Game theory;  Multi-stage attacks;  Optimisation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 33\
Kim, J., Jo, E., Lee, S., Cho, T.\
57222132165;57250075900;57222123087;9273924200;\
A Model for Illegal File Access Tracking Using Windows Logs and Elastic Stack\
(2021) Journal of Information Processing Systems, 17 (4), pp. 772-786. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85114387437&doi=10.3745%2fJIPS.03.0162&partnerID=40&md5=49e240404f3ed347f06066e9ff711613\
\
DOI: 10.3745/JIPS.03.0162\
AFFILIATIONS: Igloo Security Inc., Secoul, South Korea; \
BidCoaching Research Institute, Daejeon, South Korea; \
Izerone Digital Forensics Company, Jeonju, South Korea; \
Dept. of IT and Electronics Engineering, Woosuk University, Jincheon, Chungbuk, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: The process of tracking suspicious behavior manually on a system and gathering evidence are labor-intensive, variable, and experience-dependent. The system logs are the most important sources for evidences in this process. However, in the Microsoft Windows operating system, the action events are irregular and the log structure is difficult to audit. In this paper, we propose a model that overcomes these problems and efficiently analyzes Microsoft Windows logs. The proposed model extracts lists of both common and key events from the Microsoft Windows logs to determine detailed actions. In addition, we show an approach based on the proposed model applied to track illegal file access. The proposed approach employs three-step tracking templates using Elastic Stack as well as key-event, common-event lists and identify event lists, which enables visualization of the data for analysis. Using the three-step model, analysts can adjust the depth of their analysis. \'a9 2021 KIPS\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Active Directory;  Digital Forensics;  Elastic Stack;  Microsoft Windows Log;  Security;  Shared Folder\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 34\
Mohamed, A., Khalid, C.\
57222582688;24474272000;\
Detection of suspicious timestamps in NTFS using volume shadow copies\
(2021) International Journal of Modern Education and Computer Science, 13 (4), pp. 62-69. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85113378965&doi=10.5815%2fijcnis.2021.04.06&partnerID=40&md5=1f6e0f4fc3aa8c540723894f6fc130ad\
\
DOI: 10.5815/ijcnis.2021.04.06\
AFFILIATIONS: Engineering Science Laboratory, National School for Applied Sciences, Ibn Tofail University, Kenitra, Morocco\
ABSTRACT: When a computer gets involved in a crime, it is the mission of the digital forensic experts to extract the left binary artifacts on that device. Among those artifacts, there may be some volume shadow copy files left on the Windows operating system. Those files are snapshots of the volume recorded by the system in case of a needed restore to a specific past date. Before this study, we did not know if the valuable forensic information hold within those snapshot files can be exploited to locate suspicious timestamps in an NTFS formatted partition. This study provides the reader with an inter-snapshot time analysis for detecting file system timestamp manipulation. In other words, we will leverage the presence of the time information within multiples volume shadow copies to detect any suspicious tampering of the file system timestamps. A detection algorithm of the suspicious timestamps is contributed. Its main role is to assist the digital investigator to spot the manipulation if it has occurred. In addition, a virtual environment has been set up to validate the use of the proposed algorithm for the detection. \'a9 2021 MECS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Inter-snapshot analysis;  MACB tampering;  Time forgery;  Timestamp manipulation;  Volume shadow copy\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 35\
Ferreira, S., Antunes, M., Correia, M.E.\
57226103574;25930820200;24729160900;\
A dataset of photos and videos for digital forensics analysis using machine learning processing\
(2021) Data, 6 (8), art. no. 87, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85112408298&doi=10.3390%2fdata6080087&partnerID=40&md5=a890e6c407506d7cea86ecd5c6c46663\
\
DOI: 10.3390/data6080087\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Faculty of Sciences, University of Porto, Porto, 4169-007, Portugal; \
Computer Science and Communication Research Centre (CIIC), School of Technology and Management, Polytechnic of Leiria, Leiria, 2411-901, Portugal; \
INESC TEC, CRACS, Porto, 4200-465, Portugal\
ABSTRACT: Deepfake and manipulated digital photos and videos are being increasingly used in a myriad of cybercrimes. Ransomware, the dissemination of fake news, and digital kidnapping-related crimes are the most recurrent, in which tampered multimedia content has been the primordial disseminating vehicle. Digital forensic analysis tools are being widely used by criminal investigations to automate the identification of digital evidence in seized electronic equipment. The number of files to be processed and the complexity of the crimes under analysis have highlighted the need to employ efficient digital forensics techniques grounded on state-of-the-art technologies. Machine Learning (ML) researchers have been challenged to apply techniques and methods to improve the automatic detection of manipulated multimedia content. However, the implementation of such methods have not yet been massively incorporated into digital forensic tools, mostly due to the lack of realistic and well-structured datasets of photos and videos. The diversity and richness of the datasets are crucial to benchmark the ML models and to evaluate their appropriateness to be applied in real-world digital forensics applications. An example is the development of third-party modules for the widely used Autopsy digital forensic application. This paper presents a dataset obtained by extracting a set of simple features from genuine and manipulated photos and videos, which are part of state-of-the-art existing datasets. The resulting dataset is balanced, and each entry comprises a label and a vector of numeric values corresponding to the features extracted through a Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT). The dataset is available in a GitHub repository, and the total amount of photos and video frames is 40, 588 and 12, 400, respectively. The dataset was validated and benchmarked with deep learning Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) and Support Vector Machines (SVM) methods; however, a plethora of other existing ones can be applied. Generically, the results show a better F1-score for CNN when comparing with SVM, both for photos and videos processing. CNN achieved an F1-score of 0.9968 and 0.8415 for photos and videos, respectively. Regarding SVM, the results obtained with 5-fold cross-validation are 0.9953 and 0.7955, respectively, for photos and videos processing. A set of methods written in Python is available for the researchers, namely to preprocess and extract the features from the original photos and videos files and to build the training and testing sets. Additional methods are also available to convert the original PKL files into CSV and TXT, which gives more flexibility for the ML researchers to use the dataset on existing ML frameworks and tools. \'a9 2021 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Deepfake;  Digital forensics;  Discrete Fourier Transform;  Machine learning;  Photos and videos manipulation;  Tampered multimedia\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Data Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 36\
Juola, P.\
6602476704;\
Verifying authorship for forensic purposes: A computational protocol and its validation\
(2021) Forensic Science International, 325, art. no. 110824, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85110471884&doi=10.1016%2fj.forsciint.2021.110824&partnerID=40&md5=3ba12b43d6b481f6807f7461eb4c8454\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2021.110824\
AFFILIATIONS: Juola & Associates, 76 W Schwab Ave. MunhallPA  15120, United States\
ABSTRACT: Being able to identify the author of an anonymous or disputed document is an important task in forensic science. This can be treated as a form of pattern evidence based on writing style, but the subjective analysis of writing style may have all the well-known problems of other forms of subjective pattern evidence. In this paper, we demonstrate a computer program to address these issues. This program analyzes a pair of documents (a known document and a questioned document) to determine if they were written by the same author. More importantly, this paper also validates the accuracy of this program through a large-scale series of controlled experiments involving English language blogs. Across more than 32,000 different document pairs, the system achieved a measured accuracy of 77%. This paper concludes that this system not only addresses a key problem in forensic linguistics, but also provides the repeatability, reproducibility, and measured accuracy levels that are key to the advancement of forensic science. \'a9 2021 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Authorship attribution;  Authorship verification;  Computational linguistics;  Digital forensics;  Linguistics;  Questioned documents\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 37\
Monika, Bansal, D., Passi, A.\
57215653809;26039003100;57211335909;\
Image Forensic Investigation Using Discrete Cosine Transform-Based Approach\
(2021) Wireless Personal Communications, 119 (4), pp. 3241-3253. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85103188886&doi=10.1007%2fs11277-021-08396-1&partnerID=40&md5=9f079fc1b5014d49ca69baa6e2d1ace9\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11277-021-08396-1\
AFFILIATIONS: MRIIRS, Faridabad, India\
ABSTRACT: Digital image tempering is widespread because software and devices that manipulate image information are easily available for high-performance image editing. Now everything is online and digital images are presented as evidence of any event, documentation where forgery hides its traces. Existing techniques for forgery detection are based on the higher complexity of computational costs. The technique proposed is robust even with pre-and post-processing operations for automatic detection and localization of specific artifacts. A proposed methodology using the Discrete Cosine Transform technique was used to obtain features from each block of images that reduce the block dimension. Tampered blocks of images are compared with predefined threshold values based on robust parameters to detect similar blocks in reduced time. Experimental results show multiple forgery detection with low computational complexity and retained significance of image information. On several images that are affected by different forgery types, the proposed method acts robustly. \'a9 2021, The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Block-based feature extraction;  Digital authentication;  Discrete cosine transform;  Image forensic\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 38\
Nam, S.-H., Ahn, W., Yu, I.-J., Kwon, M.-J., Son, M., Lee, H.-K.\
56218302700;57203792707;57193720944;57219765100;57219759962;7501475723;\
Deep Convolutional Neural Network for Identifying Seam-Carving Forgery\
(2021) IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, 31 (8), art. no. 9257477, pp. 3308-3326. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85098788687&doi=10.1109%2fTCSVT.2020.3037662&partnerID=40&md5=6df11eaae0359ed040fe4a6d66a781b4\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TCSVT.2020.3037662\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computing, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST), Daejeon, 34141, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Seam carving is a representative content-aware image retargeting approach to adjust the size of an image. To preserve visually prominent content, seam-carving algorithms first calculate the connected path of pixels, referred to as the seam, according to a defined cost function and then adjust the size of an image by removing or duplicating repeatedly calculated seams. Seam carving is actively exploited to overcome diversity in the resolution of images between applications and devices; hence, detecting the distortion caused by seam carving has become important in image forensics. In this paper, we propose a convolutional neural network (CNN)-based approach to classifying seam-carving forgery. To attain the ability to learn low-level features, we designed a convolutional neural network (CNN) architecture comprising five types of network blocks specialized in capturing local artifacts caused by seam carving. An ensemble module is further adopted to both enhance performance and comprehensively analyze the features in the local areas. To validate the effectiveness of our work, extensive experiments based on various CNN-based baselines were conducted. Compared to the baselines, our work exhibits state-of-the-art performance in terms of three-class classification (original, seam inserted, and seam removed). The experimental results also demonstrate that our model with the ensemble module is robust for various unseen cases. \'a9 1991-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: content-aware image retargeting;  convolutional neural network;  Image forensics;  local artifact detection;  seam-carving forgery\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 39\
Icoiv, D.J., Aftn, T.R.\
57230092300;57229709700;\
Computer fire modeling and the law: Application to forensic fire engineering investigations\
(2021) Journal of the National Academy of Forensic Engineers, 38 (1), pp. 77-90. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85113393695&doi=10.51501%2fJOTNAFE.V38I1.167&partnerID=40&md5=3de62b5ee640a4bdb8a229927d701121\
\
DOI: 10.51501/JOTNAFE.V38I1.167\
AFFILIATIONS: PO Box 1348, Knoxvile, TN  37901-1348, United States\
ABSTRACT: Computer fue modeling can Ik\'92 a two-edged tool in forensic fire engineering investigations. Professional standards ofcare recommend thai fire modeling\'92s primary use is in examining multiple hypotheses for a fire as opposed to determining its origin. This paper covers the current acceptable benefits of computer fire models, historical and pending legal case law. and methods to use modeling results within expert reports and testi- mony. Particular issues reviewed are the use of animations versus simulations, evidentiary guidelines, and authentication using verification and validation studies. \'a9 National Academy of Forensic Engineers (NAFE).\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Animations;  Expert reports;  Expert testimony;  Forensic lire engineering investigation. fryc and oaubcrt challenge;  Kirc modeling;  Simulations;  Verification and validation (v&v). admissibility of evidence\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 40\
Liu, Y., Zou, Z., Yang, Y., Law, N.-F.B., Bharath, A.A.\
50361506900;57211684477;56291590800;7005934136;6701719807;\
Efficient source camera identification with diversity-enhanced patch selection and deep residual prediction\
(2021) Sensors, 21 (14), art. no. 4701, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85109331482&doi=10.3390%2fs21144701&partnerID=40&md5=152738a969049419f876fcf9e0958c4b\
\
DOI: 10.3390/s21144701\
AFFILIATIONS: Center for Optics Research and Engineering (CORE), Shandong University, Qingdao, 266237, China; \
Shandong Key Laboratory of Storage and Transportation Technology of Agricultural Products, Shandong Institute of Commerce and Technology, Jinan, 250103, China; \
National Engineering Research Center for Agricultural Products Logistics, Jinan, 250103, China; \
School of Information Science and Engineering, Shandong University, Qingdao, 266237, China; \
Department of Electronic and Information Engineering, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University999077, Hong Kong; \
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Imperial College London, London, SW7 2AZ, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Source camera identification has long been a hot topic in the field of image forensics. Besides conventional feature engineering algorithms developed based on studying the traces left upon shooting, several deep-learning-based methods have also emerged recently. However, identification performance is susceptible to image content and is far from satisfactory for small image patches in real demanding applications. In this paper, an efficient patch-level source camera identification method is proposed based on a convolutional neural network. First, in order to obtain improved robustness with reduced training cost, representative patches are selected according to multiple criteria for enhanced diversity in training data. Second, a fine-grained multiscale deep residual prediction module is proposed to reduce the impact of scene content. Finally, a modified VGG network is proposed for source camera identification at brand, model, and instance levels. A more critical patch-level evaluation protocol is also proposed for fair performance comparison. Abundant experimental results show that the proposed method achieves better results as compared with the state-of-the-art algorithms. \'a9 2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Convolutional neural network;  Deep learning;  Image forensics;  Imaging sensors;  Source camera identification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 41\
Thomas, T., Piscitelli, M., Nahar, B.A., Baggili, I.\
57223985097;57223983274;57226755219;37261105300;\
Duck Hunt: Memory forensics of USB attack platforms\
(2021) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 37, art. no. 301190, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85112560940&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2021.301190&partnerID=40&md5=3b28bbf9f170e485375288f11891cd6d\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2021.301190\
AFFILIATIONS: Connecticut Institute of Technology, Samuel S. Bergami Jr. Cybersecurity Center, United States\
ABSTRACT: To explore the memory forensic artifacts generated by USB-based attack platforms, we analyzed two of the most popular commercially available devices, Hak5's USB Rubber Ducky and Bash Bunny. We present two open source Volatility plugins, usbhunt and dhcphunt, which extract artifacts generated by these USB attacks from Windows 10 system memory images. Such artifacts include driver-related diagnostic events, unique device identifiers, and DHCP client logs. Our tools are capable of extracting metadata-rich Windows diagnostic events generated by any USB device. The device identifiers presented in this work may also be used to definitively detect device usage. Likewise, the DHCP logs we carve from memory may be useful in the forensic analysis of other network-connected peripherals. We also quantify how long these artifacts remain recoverable in memory. Our experiments demonstrated that some Indicators of Compromise (IOCs) remain in memory for at least 24 h. \'a9 2021 The Authors\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Bash Bunny;  Memory forensics;  Network devices;  Rubber Ducky;  USB Devices;  Volatility\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 42\
Silva, I., do Valle, J.M., Souza, G., Budke, J., Ara\'fajo, D., Carvalho, B., Cacho, N., Sales, H., Lopes, F., Silva J\'fanior, R.\
57218825566;57219344971;57219337510;57219340606;55103744400;8924126900;17433450200;57219336947;57193516964;57219344258;\
Using micro-services and artificial intelligence to analyze images in criminal evidences\
(2021) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 37, art. no. 301197, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85112558044&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2021.301197&partnerID=40&md5=1e7dc1733c66afa9ad7701afc7db4b26\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2021.301197\
AFFILIATIONS: Digital Metropolis Institute, Federal University of Rio Grande Do Norte, Natal, Brazil; \
Minist\'e9rio P\'fablico Do Rio Grande Do Norte, Brazil\
ABSTRACT: With the advancement of digital crimes, the field of digital forensic science grows more and more, and with this growth, the search for faster and more accurate solutions to aid the investigation process becomes a necessity. In the context of the Brazilian judicial system, during a criminal investigation, forensic specialists extract, decode, and analyze the evidence collected to allow the prosecutor to make legal demands for a prosecution. These specialists have a very short time to analyze to find criminal evidence and the process can take a long time. To solve this problem this paper proposes to use a micro-services-based application with artificial intelligence to process large amounts of images contained in criminal evidence using open-source software. The image classification module contains some pre-trained classifiers, considering the needs of forensic analysts of the Rio Grande do Norte District Attorney's Office (MPRN). The models were built to identify specific types of objects, for example, firearms, ammunition, Brazilian identity cards, text documents, cell phone screen captures, and nudity. The results obtained show that the system achieved good accuracy in most cases. This is extremely important in the context of this research, where false positives should be avoided in order to save analysts' working time. Moreover, the proposed architecture was able to speed up the image classification process using Apache Spark. \'a9 2021 The Authors\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer vision;  Crime evidence;  Digital forensics;  Machine learning;  Microservice\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 43\
Ali, A., Ahmed, M., Khan, A.\
57207871944;57196745090;55209201300;\
Audit Logs Management and Security - A Survey\
(2021) Kuwait Journal of Science, 48 (3), . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85109110223&doi=10.48129%2fkjs.v48i3.10624&partnerID=40&md5=1295aabe7f605e0145c160a9162f2634\
\
DOI: 10.48129/kjs.v48i3.10624\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Computer Science, COMSATS University, Islamabad, Pakistan; \
Dept. of Computer Science, Aberystwyth University, Aberystwyth, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Audit logs are key resources that show the current state of the systems and user activities and are used for cyber forensics and maintenance. These logs are the only source that can help in finding traces of some malicious activities or troubleshooting a system failure. Insight view for trouble-free availability of computing resources and performance monitoring and meaningful forensic audit depends on the management and archival system of audit logs. These logs are prone to multidimensional threats and superusers or system administrators have unprecedented access to these logs and can alter these logs as and when required. Similarly, repudiation is another serious issue in computer forensics and non-repudiation can be provided by a secure recording of event logs. Periodic backups, encrypted data transfer, off-site storage and certificate based storage of these logs are commonly being used. In this survey, we searched for the requirements of securing audit logs and available approaches to secure these logs. Based on the available literature, a taxonomy of audit log management is developed. We have drawn a comparison between these approaches and also highlighted the current challenges to these logs security and their available options. \'a9 2021 University of Kuwait. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Audit Logs;  Audit Logs Security;  Log Management;  Logs Immutability;  Logs Storage\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 44\
Sabeena, M., Abraham, L.\
57223257594;55342268000;\
Digital image forensic using deep flower pollination with adaptive Harris hawk optimization\
(2021) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 80 (17), pp. 26333-26355. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85105370144&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-021-10925-w&partnerID=40&md5=b22b2d7faee26b9c483400535586b95a\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-021-10925-w\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, LBS Institute of Technology for Women, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, India; \
Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, College of Engineering, Karunagappally, Kerala, India; \
APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, India\
ABSTRACT: This paper presents a new segmentation algorithm and deep learning concept for innovative copy-move image forgery identification. In this work, the segmentation algorithm uses a new Adaptive Harris Hawk Optimization (AHHO) algorithm. The host image is segmented into irregular and non-overlapping blocks, named as Image Blocks (IB). Here the segmented image is compressed with a Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT). After that, the Zernike moments and Gabor filter-based features extraction techniques are processed to extract the Block Features (BF). At last, the tampered portions are classified with the hybrid Deep Neural Network (DNN) and Flower Pollination Algorithm (FPA) for forgery classification. This novel deep learning algorithm reduces the learning complexities and improves detection accuracy. The compression attacks are removed with anti-forensic blocking artefact removal concept. The experiments are conducted on the Benchmark dataset, CoMoFoD, and GRIP. For the benchmark dataset, precision, recall and F1 values are 91.27,100.0 and 96.07, respectively. For CoMoFoD dataset, the values of precision, recall and F1 are 92.57, 98.0 and 93.05, respectively. For GRIP dataset, the values of precision, recall and F1 are 97.02, 98.0 and 93.05, respectively. The implementation outcomes demonstrated that the proposed scheme is most effective in copy-move forgery recognition than the existing forgery detection approaches. \'a9 2021, The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Adaptive Harris hawk optimization;  Compression;  Copy-move forgery identification;  Feature extraction;  Feature fusion;  Hybrid deep neural network with flower pollination algorithm;  Segmentation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 45\
Arikan, S.M., Yurekten, O.\
57220752412;15074299000;\
Development and Maintenance of Mobile Forensic Investigation Software Modules\
(2021) 9th International Symposium on Digital Forensics and Security, ISDFS 2021, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85114665347&doi=10.1109%2fISDFS52919.2021.9486353&partnerID=40&md5=5c19e08d33a44489c8e4776e0c965ab8\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISDFS52919.2021.9486353\
AFFILIATIONS: TUBITAK BILGEM, Cyber Security Institute, Ankara, Turkey\
ABSTRACT: Nowadays, mobile devices are indispensable for social and business activities. Therefore, mobile device forensic technologies are critical for forensics practitioners. While using these technologies, they can investigate and analyze mobile phone application artifacts that contain data useful metadata, such as geographical location and timestamp. However, developing a complete forensic investigation software for mobile devices is challenging. While developing or maintaining forensic investigation software, project team must consider new trends such as emerging IT technologies, increases of popular mobile applications, new features added to existing mobile applications, and security constraints constantly. In this study, we have defined and applied a process based on agile methodology to develop forensic investigation modules. Moreover, we have presented the implementation details of modules for 9 popular Android social media and instant messaging applications, including wireless communication and system information. Finally, we have summarized the difficulties encountered in this study. \'a9 2021 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: agile development;  Android forensics;  digital forensics;  forensic investigation;  mobile forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 46\
Li, X., Yu, N., Zhang, X., Zhang, W., Li, B., Lu, W., Wang, W., Liu, X.\
35280446200;57201634030;57218701409;56459354100;57102112000;26664168800;56948518500;57225057703;\
Overview of digital media forensics technology [
\f2 \'ca\'fd\'d7\'d6\'c3\'bd\'cc\'e5\'c8\'a1\'d6\'a4\'bc\'bc\'ca\'f5\'d7\'db\'ca\'f6
\f0 ]\
(2021) Journal of Image and Graphics, 26 (6), pp. 1216-1226. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85108995834&doi=10.11834%2fjig.210081&partnerID=40&md5=42347f5da278db2c2b7c8ffbd256fd32\
\
DOI: 10.11834/jig.210081\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Information Science, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, 100044, China; \
School of Information Science and Technology, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, 230027, China; \
School of Communication and Information Engineering, Shanghai University, Shanghai, 200444, China; \
School of Information Engineering, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, 518060, China; \
School of Computer Science and Engineering, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China; \
Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100190, China\
ABSTRACT: Internet and social networks have become the main platforms for people to access and share various digital media. Among them, media based on images, videos, and audio carry more information and are the most eye-catching. With the rapid development of computer technology, image and video editing software and tools have appeared one after another, such as Photoshop, Adobe Premiere Pro, and VideoStudio. These editing software can be faster and easier to modify the media. The effect of image forgery is realistic, and the effect of video editing and synthesis is natural and smooth. In recent years, the image generation technology has also been greatly developed, and the visual effects of the generated images may be fake. The problem of multimedia forgery attracts people's attention. The purpose of forgery may be entertainment (such as beautifying images), malicious modification of the content of images and videos (such as deliberately modifying photos of political figures or deliberately exaggerating the severity of news events), and malicious copying. Image forgery incidents in recent years also remind people to focus on the security of media content. The authenticity of visual media content decreases and is increasingly being questioned. At present, millions of multimedia data are transmitted via the Internet every day. What type of content is true? What tampering was made behind the wrong content? The digital forensics technology proposed in recent years provides the answer. This technology does not embed a watermark in advance but directly analyzes the content of multimedia data to achieve the purpose of authenticity recognition. The basic principle is that the inherent characteristics of the original multimedia data are consistent and unique and can be used as its own "intrinsic fingerprint". Any tampering or forgery destroys its integrity to a certain extent. In recent years, media tampering has been increasing and has seriously threatened social stability and even national security. Especially with the rapid development of deep learning technology, the perceived gap between fake media and real media decreases. This finding poses a serious challenge to media forensic research and makes multimedia forensics an important issue in the field of information security research direction. Therefore, technologies and tools that can detect erroneous multimedia content are urgently required, and the spread of dangerous erroneous information is avoided. This article aims to summarize the excellent detection and forensics algorithms proposed in the previous multimedia forensics field. In addition to reviewing traditional media forensics methods, we introduce methods based on deep learning. This article summarizes the current mainstream multimedia tampering objects, namely, images, videos, and sounds. Each media form includes traditional tampering methods and artificial intelligence (AI)-based tampering methods. Among them, video tampering is mainly divided into intraframe tampering and interframe tampering. Intraframe tampering takes the video frame as a unit to delete objects on the screen or performing "copy and move" operations, and interframe tampering takes the video sequence as a unit to add or delete frames. Traditional methods for detecting fake videos can be divided into video encoding tracking detection, video content inconsistency detection, video frame repeated tampering, and copy and paste detection. AI-based error video detection technology focuses on detecting artifacts left over from the network generated in the imaging network, which is different from the imaging process of a real camera. The purpose of digital image forensics technology is to verify the integrity and authenticity of digital images. Image forensic methods can be divided into active methods and passive methods. Active image forensics includes embedding watermarks or signatures in digital images. The passive blind forensic (blind forensics) method is not limited by these factors. It distinguishes images by detecting traces of tampering in the image. Common image forgery and tampering include enhancement, modification, area duplication, splicing, and synthesis. The detection of partial replacement image is divided into the following: 1) Area copy and tamper detection, which copies and pastes part of the area in the image to other areas. During the copying process, the copied area may undergo various geometric transformations and postprocessing. 2) Image processing fingerprints detection. The visual difference caused by simple area copying, splicing, and tampering is still evident. The forger performs postprocessing, such as zooming, rotating, and blurring the image, to eliminate these traces. 3) In recompression fingerprint detection, tampered images inevitably undergo recompression; thus, digital image recompression detection can provide a powerful auxiliary basis for digital image forensics. For the traceability detection technology of forged images, most images are captured by the camera. The general physical structure of the camera and the physical differences between different cameras leave traces on the captured images. These traces (camera fingerprints) appear as a series of features on the image, and the acquisition device of this image can be identified by examining the fingerprint of the device embedded in the image. The detection technology for the overall image generated by AI also focuses on detecting the artifacts left by the network generated in the imaging network. In the previous decades, some digital audio forensic studies have focused on detecting various forms of audio tampering. These methods check the metadata of audio files. In addition, the publicly available large-scale data sets and related applications are introduced, and the possible future development directions of the multimedia forensic field is discussed. \'a9 2021, Editorial Office of Journal of Image and Graphics. All right reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Fake face;  Forgery detection;  Forgery localization;  Multimedia forensics;  Multimedia traceability\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 47\
Saleh, M.A., Hajar Othman, S., Al-Dhaqm, A., Al-Khasawneh, M.A.\
57231276500;57223030070;56516988400;57205293357;\
Common investigation process model for internet of things forensics\
(2021) 2021 2nd International Conference on Smart Computing and Electronic Enterprise: Ubiquitous, Adaptive, and Sustainable Computing Solutions for New Normal, ICSCEE 2021, pp. 84-89. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85114880623&doi=10.1109%2fICSCEE50312.2021.9498045&partnerID=40&md5=6e905b97d1e952137a5655ce9724d73c\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICSCEE50312.2021.9498045\
AFFILIATIONS: Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, Faculty of Engineering, School of Computing, Johor, Malaysia; \
Al-Madinah International University, Faculty of Computer and Information Technology, Shah Alam, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: Internet of Things Forensics (IoTFs) is a new discipline in digital forensics science used in the detection, acquisition, preservation, rebuilding, analyzing, and the presentation of evidence from IoT environments. IoTFs discipline still suffers from several issues and challenges that have in the recent past been documented. For example, heterogeneity of IoT infrastructures has mainly been a key challenge. The heterogeneity of the IoT infrastructures makes the IoTFs very complex, and ambiguous among various forensic domain. This paper aims to propose a common investigation processes for IoTFs using the metamodeling method called Common Investigation Process Model (CIPM) for IoTFs. The proposed CIPM consists of four common investigation processes: i) preparation process, ii) collection process, iii) analysis process and iv) final report process. The proposed CIPM can assist IoTFs users to facilitate, manage, and organize the investigation tasks. \'a9 2021 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  IoT;  IoT forensics;  Metamoddling\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 48\
Jung, S., Seo, S., Kim, Y., Lee, C.\
57224370872;57224360186;57224367284;55700514400;\
Memory layout extraction and verification method for reliable physical memory acquisition\
(2021) Electronics (Switzerland), 10 (12), art. no. 1380, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85107447004&doi=10.3390%2felectronics10121380&partnerID=40&md5=16b344677bf6f3141cd67b7eb02d895e\
\
DOI: 10.3390/electronics10121380\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Seoul National University of Science and Technology, Seoul, 01811, South Korea; \
Research Institute of Electric and Information Technology, Seoul National University of Science and Technology, Seoul, 01811, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Physical memory acquisition is a prerequisite when performing memory forensics, referring to a set of techniques for acquiring and analyzing traces associated with user activity information, malware analysis, cyber incident response, and similar areas when the traces remain in the physical RAM. However, certain types of malware have applied anti-memory forensics techniques to evade memory analysis strategies or to make the acquisition process impossible. To disturb the acquisition process of physical memory, an attacker hooks the kernel API, which returns a map of the physical memory spaces, and modifies the return value of the API, specifically that typically used by memory acquisition tools. Moreover, an attacker modifies the kernel object referenced by the kernel API. This causes the system to crash during the memory acquisition process or causes the memory acquisition tools to incorrectly proceed with the acquisition. Even with a modification of one byte, called a one-byte modification attack, some tools fail to acquire memory. Therefore, specialized countermeasure techniques are needed for these anti-memory forensics techniques. In this paper, we propose a memory layout acquisition method which is robust to kernel API hooking and the one-byte modification attack on NumberOfRuns, the kernel object used to construct the memory layout in Windows. The proposed acquisition method directly accesses the memory, extracts the byte array, and parses it in the form of a memory layout. When we access the memory, we extract the _PHYSICAL_MEMORY_DESCRIPTOR structure, which is the basis of the memory layout without using the existing memory layout acquisition API. Furthermore, we propose a verification method that selects a reliable memory layout. We realize the verification method by comparing NumberOfRuns and the memory layout acquired via the kernel API, the registry, and the proposed method. The proposed verification method guarantees the reliability of the memory layout and helps secure memory image acquisition through a comparative verification with existing memory layout acquisition methods. We also conduct experiments to prove that the proposed method is resistant to anti-memory forensics techniques, confirming that there are no significant differences in time compared to the existing tools. \'a9 2021 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Cyber security;  Digital forensics;  Incident response;  Malware;  Memory forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 49\
Xiang, Z., Horvath, J., Baireddy, S., Bestagini, P., Tubaro, S., Delp, E.J.\
57224548383;57218707036;57216373353;21638596100;7003411765;7005252700;\
Forensic analysis of video files using metadata\
(2021) IEEE Computer Society Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops, pp. 1042-1051. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85115987860&doi=10.1109%2fCVPRW53098.2021.00115&partnerID=40&md5=1381df721bfe187fdb3c60600c2b2fa6\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CVPRW53098.2021.00115\
AFFILIATIONS: Purdue University, Video and Image Processing Lab (VIPER), School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, West Lafayette, IN, United States; \
Politecnico di Milano, Dipartimento di Elettronica, Informazione e Bioingegneria, Milano, Italy\
ABSTRACT: The unprecedented ease and ability to manipulate video content has led to a rapid spread of manipulated media. The availability of video editing tools greatly increased in recent years, allowing one to easily generate photo-realistic alterations. Such manipulations can leave traces in the metadata embedded in video files. This metadata information can be used to determine video manipulations, brand of video recording device, the type of video editing tool, and other important evidence. In this paper, we focus on the metadata contained in the popular MP4 video wrapper/container. We describe our method for metadata extractor that uses the MP4's tree structure. Our approach for analyzing the video metadata produces a more compact representation. We will describe how we construct features from the metadata and then use dimensionality reduction and nearest neighbor classification for forensic analysis of a video file. Our approach allows one to visually inspect the distribution of metadata features and make decisions. The experimental results confirm that the performance of our approach surpasses other methods. \'a9 2021 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 50 **SELECTED** SID: 3\
Nordvik, R., Stoykova, R., Franke, K., Axelsson, S., Toolan, F.\
56468018500;57204611393;14057858600;7006095000;57195556052;\
Reliability validation for file system interpretation\
(2021) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 37, art. no. 301174, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85111068634&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2021.301174&partnerID=40&md5=785a99df1acd90d971ffe6428255d088\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2021.301174\
AFFILIATIONS: Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Norway; \
Norwegian Police University College, Norway; \
University of Groningen, Netherlands; \
Stockholm University, Sweden\
ABSTRACT: This paper examines current best practices for Digital Forensic (DF) tool and method validation in the context of file system interpretation for digital evidence. In order to meet the legal and scientific requirements in criminal procedures file system (FS) reverse engineering (RE) is a necessity. Currently, there is no standard procedure for reliability testing of FS RE. Ideal validation requirements exist, but they are on high-level and practical implementation is missing. In this paper we propose a formal reliability validation procedure for file system reverse engineering, documenting the forensic process, including the tools used, ensuring reliability and reproducibility of the method and the results. The procedure is based on legal and scientific criteria and tested against file system reverse engineering methods. It is applicable to all types of reverse engineering methods in digital forensics. \'a9 2021 The Author(s)\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Black-box testing;  Digital Forensics;  File systems;  Reliability;  Reproducibility;  Reverse engineering;  Validation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 51\
Salamh, F.E., Karabiyik, U., Rogers, M.K., Matson, E.T.\
57210393197;56493051000;7402696818;7006694440;\
A comparative uav forensic analysis: Static and live digital evidence traceability challenges\
(2021) Drones, 5 (2), art. no. 42, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85107210418&doi=10.3390%2fdrones5020042&partnerID=40&md5=3ec2017d3d25f6cd2ec9ae5f40a85c97\
\
DOI: 10.3390/drones5020042\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer and Information Technology, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN  47907, United States\
ABSTRACT: The raising accessibility of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), colloquially known as drones, is rapidly increasing. Recent studies have discussed challenges that may come in tow with the growing use of this technology. These studies note that in-depth examination is required, especially when addressing challenges that carry a high volume of software data between sensors, actuators, and control commands. This work underlines static and live digital evidence traceability challenges to further enhance the UAV incident response plan. To study the live UAV forensic traceability issues, we apply the \'91purple-teaming\'92 exercise on small UAVs while conducting UAV forensic examination to determine technical challenges related to data integrity and repeatability. In addition, this research highlights current static technical challenges that could pose more challenges in justifying the discovered digital evidence. Additionally, this study discusses potential drone anti-forensic techniques and their association with the type of use, environment, attack vector, and level of expertise. To this end, we propose the UAV Kill Chain and categorize the impact and complexity of all highlighted challenges based on the conducted examination and the presented scientific contribution in this work. To the best of our knowledge, there has not been any contribution that incorporates \'91Purple-Teaming\'92 tactics to evaluate UAV-related research in cybersecurity and digital forensics. This work also proposes a categorization model that classifies the discovered UAV static and live digital evidence challenges based on their complexity and impact levels. \'a9 2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Comparative model;  Data integrity;  Digital evidence traceability;  Kill chain;  Technical issues;  UAV Forensic\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 52\
Prakash, V., Williams, A., Garg, L., Savaglio, C., Bawa, S.\
57210718250;57223857993;22034197400;56028706000;22978121500;\
Cloud and edge computing-based computer forensics: Challenges and open problems\
(2021) Electronics (Switzerland), 10 (11), art. no. 1229, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85106221338&doi=10.3390%2felectronics10111229&partnerID=40&md5=137bc19bc210516089f75d886aafd09a\
\
DOI: 10.3390/electronics10111229\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science & Engineering, Thapar Institute of Engineering & Technology, Patiala, Punjab, 147001, India; \
Computer Science Department, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, L69 3GH, United Kingdom; \
Computer Information Systems, Faculty of Information & Communication Technology, University of Malta, Msida, 2080, Malta; \
Institute for High Performance Computing and Networking (ICAR), National Research Council, Rende, 87036, Italy\
ABSTRACT: In recent years, there has been a dramatic change in attitude towards computers and the use of computer resources in general. Cloud and Edge computing have emerged as the most widely used technologies, including fog computing and the Internet of Things (IoT). There are several benefits in exploiting Cloud and Edge computing paradigms, such as lower costs and higher efficiency. It provides data computation and storage where data are processed, enables better data control, faster understanding and actions, and continuous operation. However, though these benefits seem to be appealing, their effects on computer forensics are somewhat undesirable. The complexity of the Cloud and Edge environments and their key features present many technical challenges from multiple stakeholders. This paper seeks to establish an in-depth understanding of the impact of Cloud and Edge computing-based environmental factors. Software and hardware tools used in the digital forensic process, forensic methods for handling tampered sound files, hidden files, image files, or images with steganography, etc. The technical/legal challenges and the open design problems (such as distributed maintenance, multitasking and practicality) highlight the various challenges for the digital forensics process. \'a9 2021 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud computing;  Computer forensics;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensic investigation process;  Edge computing;  Forensic software tools;  Forensic software tools\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 53\
Ramos, J., Rasga, J., Sernadas, C., Vigan\'f2, L.\
7401900998;55910077700;6603952566;57208733404;\
Event-Based Time-Stamped Claim Logic\
(2021) Journal of Logical and Algebraic Methods in Programming, 121, art. no. 100684, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85105064245&doi=10.1016%2fj.jlamp.2021.100684&partnerID=40&md5=2fcd28902c0ce7509d0d3ee5c14d19ac\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.jlamp.2021.100684\
AFFILIATIONS: Departamento de Matem\'e1tica, Instituto Superior T\'e9cnico, ULisboa, Lisboa, Portugal; \
Instituto de Telecomunica\'e7\'f5es, Lisboa, Portugal; \
Department of Informatics, King's College London, London, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: The Event-Based Time-Stamped Claim Logic that we define in this paper allows one to reason about distributed time-stamped claims that can change through time by the occurrence of events. Such a logic is interesting for theoretical reasons, i.e., as a logic per se, but also because it can be applied in a number of different disciplines and application domains (e.g., history, crime forensics or cyber forensics) as it allows one to reason about a huge amount of pieces of evidence collected from different sources over time, where some of the pieces of evidence may be contradictory and some sources considered to be more trustworthy than others. We formalize the language and the semantics of the Event-Based Time-Stamped Claim Logic, provide a sound and complete Hilbert calculus, and consider some concrete examples. We also show that the validity problem for the logic is decidable by providing a tableau-like decision algorithm. \'a9 2021 Elsevier Inc.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Completeness;  Decidability;  Events;  Linear temporal logic;  Time-stamps\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 54\
Kim, G., Kim, S., Park, M., Park, Y., Lee, I., Kim, J.\
56518726900;57205197799;56035968000;57205644720;57205645320;57203325060;\
Forensic analysis of instant messaging apps: Decrypting Wickr and private text messaging data\
(2021) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 37, art. no. 301138, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85103335900&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2021.301138&partnerID=40&md5=b9f3e26fa40416200f30603b5dbb28f8\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2021.301138\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Financial Information Security, Kookmin University, 77 Jeongneung-Ro, Seongbuk-Gu, Seoul, 02707, South Korea; \
Dept. of Information Security, Cryptology, and Mathematics, Kookmin University, 77 Jeongneung-Ro, Seongbuk-Gu, Seoul, 02707, South Korea; \
Digital Investigations Division, Prosecutors' Office, 157, Banpo-Daero, Seocho-Gu, Seoul, 06590, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Currently, obtaining digital evidence from instant messaging (IM) apps is being considered. IM apps store personal user data, e.g., user information, chat messages, and multimedia files, most IM apps protect the stored data using secure cryptographic algorithms such that only an authorized person can access the app data. Accordingly, it is important to develop a decryption method for IM app data for digital forensic investigations. In this paper, we present how the database and main files of IM apps are stored and encrypted, as well as how the apps verify passwords. We also present a decryption methodology for the databases and multimedia files of two IM apps, i.e., Wickr and Private Text Messaging, which provide various secure communications, e.g., text messages and multimedia files. The decrypted data of these IM apps was verified in simulations. \'a9 2021 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Database decryption;  Instant messenger;  Private text messaging;  Wickr\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 55\
Peng, L., Liao, X., Chen, M.\
57219442183;26665606800;57207768252;\
Resampling parameter estimation via dual-filtering based convolutional neural network\
(2021) Multimedia Systems, 27 (3), pp. 363-370. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85092706019&doi=10.1007%2fs00530-020-00697-y&partnerID=40&md5=063f73a33972a2f127e7e3df94972536\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s00530-020-00697-y\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering, Hunan University, Changsha, 410082, China; \
State Key Laboratory of Information Security, Institute of Information Engineering, Chinese Academy of Science, Beijing, 100093, China; \
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Maryland, College Park, MD  20742, United States\
ABSTRACT: Resampling detection is an important problem in image forensics. Several exiting approaches have been proposed to solve it, but few of them focus on resampling parameter estimation. Especially, the estimation of downsampling scenarios is very challenging. In this paper, we propose a dual-filtering based convolutional neural network (CNN) to extract features directly from the images. First, we analyze the formulation of resampling parameter estimation and reformulate it as a multi-classification problem by regarding each resampling parameter as a distinct class. Then, we design a network structure based on the preprocessing operation to capture the specific resampling traces for classification. Two parallel filters with different highpass filters are deployed to the CNN architecture, which enlarges the resampling traces and makes it easier to achieve resampling parameter estimation. Next, concatenating the outputs of the two filters by a \'93concat\'94 layer. Finally, the experimental results demonstrate our proposed method is effective and has better performance than state-of-the-art methods in resampling parameter estimation. \'a9 2020, Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Convolutional neural network;  Dual-filtering;  Image forensics;  Parameter estimation;  Resampling detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 56\
Ramos L\'f3pez, R., Sandoval Orozco, A.L., Garc\'eda Villalba, L.J.\
57148247300;57195496087;14039837800;\
Compression effects and scene details on the source camera identification of digital videos\
(2021) Expert Systems with Applications, 170, art. no. 114515, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85099449282&doi=10.1016%2fj.eswa.2020.114515&partnerID=40&md5=7a3bf8f55d32be2bb850c7b3accb63af\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.eswa.2020.114515\
AFFILIATIONS: Group of Analysis, Security and Systems (GASS), Department of Software Engineering and Artificial Intelligence (DISIA), Faculty of Computer Science and Engineering, Office 431, Universidad Complutense de Madrid (UCM), Calle Profesor Jos\'e9 Garc\'eda Santesmases 9, Ciudad Universitaria, Madrid, 28040, Spain\
ABSTRACT: The continuous growth of technologies like 4G or 5G has led to a massive use of mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets. This phenomenon, combined with the fact that people use mobile phones for a longer period of time, results in mobile phones becoming the main source of creation of visual information. However, its reliability as a true representation of reality cannot be taken for granted due to the constant increase in editing software. This makes it easier to alter original content without leaving a noticeable trace in the modification. Therefore, it is essential to introduce forensic analysis mechanisms to guarantee the authenticity or integrity of a certain digital video, particularly if it may be considered as evidence in legal proceedings. This paper explains the branch of multimedia forensic analysis that allows to determine the identification of the source of acquisition of a certain video by exploiting the unique traces left by the camera sensor of the mobile device in visual content. To do this, a technique that performs the identification of the source of acquisition of digital videos from mobile devices is presented. It involves 3 stages: (1) Extraction of the sensor fingerprint by applying the block-based technique. (2) Filtering the strong component of the PRNU signal to improve the quality of the sensor fingerprint. (3) Classification of digital videos in an open scenario, that is, where the forensic analyst does not need to have access to the device that recorded the video to find out the origin of the video. The main contribution of the proposed technique eliminates the details of the scene to improve the PRNU fingerprint. It should be noted that these techniques are applied to digital images and not to digital videos. In this work, we show that it is necessary to take this improvement into account to improve the identification of digital videos. Experimental results are also presented that support the validity of the techniques used and show promising results. \'a9 2021 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Acquisition source identification;  Forensics analysis;  H.264;  Key frame extraction;  PRNU;  Sensor pattern noise;  Smartphone;  Video enhancement;  Video forensics analysis;  Video source acquisition\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 57\
Maheswari, K.U., Shobana, G.\
57226829701;57217110469;\
The state of the art tools and techniques for remote digital forensic investigations\
(2021) 2021 3rd International Conference on Signal Processing and Communication, ICPSC 2021, art. no. 9451718, pp. 464-468. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85112801418&doi=10.1109%2fICSPC51351.2021.9451718&partnerID=40&md5=b70f3e797856f504060fdfa62e80559c\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICSPC51351.2021.9451718\
AFFILIATIONS: Bharathi Women's College, Department of Computer Science, Chennai, India; \
Madras Christian College, Department of Computer Applications, Chennai, India\
ABSTRACT: Remote forensic techniques are widely searched in these days for its response capability in providing a way to perform evaluation of potentially compromised devices without physically accessing them. Discreet internal investigations are possible in remote forensics without the knowledge of the system owner. The need for eliminating the cost and time delays involved in delivering digital forensic capabilities to remote locations all around the world is profoundly increasing. This paper analyses various methodologies currently in force for remote forensic investigation. Different state of the art software and hardware tools and techniques are compared for performing different stages of investigation. Comparison tables presented for the understanding of merits, demerits, challenges and opportunities involved in those techniques. The overall intent of this paper is to perform comparative analysis based on qualitative outputs observed from memory, timeline and live forensics imaging on an incident that can simplify the process of finding out more appropriate technique under varying circumstances for effective remote forensic investigation. \'a9 2021 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Evidence acquisition;  Memory analysis;  Remote forensics;  Time-line analysis and live analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 58\
Huang, Y., Li, X., Wang, W., Jiang, T., Zhang, Q.\
57207982877;57189218464;57020942200;56492041300;56670485000;\
Towards cross-modal forgery detection and localization on live surveillance videos\
(2021) Proceedings - IEEE INFOCOM, 2021-May, art. no. 9488798, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85111901538&doi=10.1109%2fINFOCOM42981.2021.9488798&partnerID=40&md5=1f28768dedeeeeaa92962d94cc127619\
\
DOI: 10.1109/INFOCOM42981.2021.9488798\
AFFILIATIONS: Huazhong University of Science and Technology, School of Electronic Information and Communications; \
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Department of Computer Science and Engineering\
ABSTRACT: The cybersecurity breaches render surveillance systems vulnerable to video forgery attacks, under which authentic live video streams are tampered to conceal illegal human activities under surveillance cameras. Traditional video forensics approaches can detect and localize forgery traces in each video frame using computationally-expensive spatial-temporal analysis, while falling short in real-time verification of live video feeds. The recent work correlates time-series camera and wireless signals to recognize replayed surveillance videos using event-level timing information but it cannot realize fine-grained forgery detection and localization on each frame. To fill this gap, this paper proposes Secure-Pose, a novel cross-modal forgery detection and localization system for live surveillance videos using WiFi signals near the camera spot. We observe that coexisting camera and WiFi signals convey common human semantic information and the presence of forgery attacks on video frames will decouple such information correspondence. Secure-Pose extracts effective human pose features from synchronized multi-modal signals and detects and localizes forgery traces under both inter-frame and intra-frame attacks in each frame. We implement Secure-Pose using a commercial camera and two Intel 5300 NICs and evaluate it in real-world environments. Secure-Pose achieves a high detection accuracy of 95.1% and can effectively localize tampered objects under different forgery attacks. \'a9 2021 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cross-modal authentication;  Surveillance system;  Video forgery\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 59\
Peng, L., Zhu, X., Zhang, P.\
57192091645;57216611992;57211785733;\
A Framework for Mobile Forensics Based on Clustering of Big Data\
(2021) 2021 IEEE 4th International Conference on Electronics Technology, ICET 2021, art. no. 9451014, pp. 1300-1303. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85112855487&doi=10.1109%2fICET51757.2021.9451014&partnerID=40&md5=a1a1e17c813b9146067e6a8b47e620c4\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICET51757.2021.9451014\
AFFILIATIONS: Sichuan Police College, Department of Computer Science and Technology, Luzhou, China; \
China West Normal University, School of Computer Science, Nanchong, China; \
Southwest University of Science and Technology, School of Science, Mianyang, China\
ABSTRACT: With the rapid development of the wireless network and smart mobile equipment, many lawbreakers employ mobile devices to destroy and steal important information and property from other persons. In order to fighting the criminal act efficiently, the public security organ need to collect the evidences from the crime tools and submit to the court. In the meantime, with development of internal storage technology, the law enforcement officials collect lots of information from the smart mobile equipment, for the sake of handling the huge amounts of data, we propose a framework that combine distributed clustering methods to analyze data sets, this model will split massive data into smaller pieces and use clustering method to analyze each smaller one on disparate machines to solve the problem of large amount of data, thus forensics investigation work will be more effectively. \'a9 2021 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: big data;  clustering;  digital forensics;  mobile forensics framework\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 60\
Wu, M.-H., Chang, T.-C., Li-Min, Y.\
55618759000;57243856600;57243722000;\
Digital forensics security analysis on iOS devices\
(2021) Journal of Web Engineering, 20 (4), pp. 775-794. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85114182106&doi=10.13052%2fjwe1540-9589.20310&partnerID=40&md5=89d6ea9fcb164211403ec504228ba2d0\
\
DOI: 10.13052/jwe1540-9589.20310\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Information Engineering, Guangzhou Panyu Polytechnic, Guangdong, 511483, China\
ABSTRACT: With the rapid development of the Internet era, cell phones play an essential and indispensable role in nowadays life. Smartphones have profoundly influenced our social relationships and our daily lives. Generally speaking, the most common tools we hear about in our daily lives are QQ, WeChat, and other Internet communication services that allow users to send text messages, pictures, and documents, providing a more convenient and faster medium for people to communicate and chat. The popularity and convenience of mobile technology have changed people\'92s habits of communication. People no longer need to rely on computers to communicate, and computers cannot communicate anytime and anywhere. In the kernel of Linux and Windows, as long as the Message Hooker will install, it can monitor the messages of other programs, including WeChat and QQ, in this research. We can provide relevant law enforcement officers with effective evidence collection so that criminals will not be able to hide. The suspects often delete their WeChat or QQ records after committing the crime. It impossible for our law enforcement agencies to obtain evidence directly from the cell phone and the crime facts. Our research hopes to use some technology to help law enforcement units effectively obtain strong evidence in the iPhone not to hide the crime facts. \'a9 2021 River Publishers\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Instant messaging;  IOS forensics;  Jailbreak;  Mobile forensics;  QQ;  Social networking;  WeChat\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 61\
A, R., N, S., K, G.\
57224071767;57224093582;57224088749;\
Forensic investigation for twin identification from speech: perceptual and gamma-tone features and models\
(2021) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 80 (12), pp. 18301-18315. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85101087052&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-021-10639-z&partnerID=40&md5=29c854525bfe5fab71dd1ebd8df4d137\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-021-10639-z\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of ECE/SEEE, SASTRA Deemed University, Thanjavur, India; \
Department of CSE/SoC, SASTRA Deemed University, Thanjavur, India\
ABSTRACT: To assist an investigation process, forensic experts compare and analyze audio recordings. Speech utterances are compared by humans and/or machines for use in court for investigation. Scientific research community insists for specific automatic or human-based approach to identify uniquxy2e audio features from identical twins group. Filters can be employed to enhance an audio recording for improving clarity. This may entail removal of unnecessary noise to enrich the intelligibility of speech. Forensic audio experts can examine a variety of characteristics of the audio recording to decide the possibility of alterations in the collected evidences. This includes confirming the integrity and authenticating that the content is what it purports to be. Thiswork named as FIST(Forensic Investigation for Twin Identification from Speech: Perceptual and Gamma-tone Features and Models) proposes an automated system to identify a twin from identical twin pairs by the use of gamma-tone features and perceptual features.The proposed features are excerpted from the set of training speeches and templates are created for each twin based on vector quantisation (VQ), Fuzzy C means clustering (FCM) and multivariate hidden Markov modelling (MHMM) techniques. For testing, features are extracted from the set of test utterances and worked out to the templates for classification. Based on the type of classifier used, classification of twin is carried out with minimum distance and maximum loglikelihood value. The proposed features are examinedfor sub-optimal and true success rates as key performance metrics to assess the system and also a comparative analysis is made across the proposed features. Among the inspected features, Gammatone energy features expose better performance in comparison to perceptual features by attaining the overall sub-optimal success rate and true success rate as97.8375% and 92.75% for Gammatone energy features with VQ based modelling technique. This work FIST has also been analysed by inducing disturbance in the form of speech interference from their own twin pairs and Gamma-tone energy feature with VQ based modelling technique performs better for twin identification. A high claim of 99.625% and 95.0625% accuracy has been achieved by employing decision level fusion classifier. \'a9 2021, The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Fuzzy C means clustering;  Gamma-tone energy features;  Twin identification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 62\
Razaque, A., Aloqaily, M., Almiani, M., Jararweh, Y., Srivastava, G.\
25961025600;35226211500;57189663325;25825095600;57202588447;\
Efficient and reliable forensics using intelligent edge computing\
(2021) Future Generation Computer Systems, 118, pp. 230-239. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85099505599&doi=10.1016%2fj.future.2021.01.012&partnerID=40&md5=7bad1df69dd90ba900e0cfbbffc18169\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.future.2021.01.012\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Engineering and Information Security, International Information Technology University, Almaty, Kazakhstan; \
Faculty of Engineering, Al Ain University, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates; \
Gulf University for Science and Technology, Kuwait; \
Jordan University of Science and TechnologyIrbid, Jordan; \
Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, Brandon UniversityBrandon, MB, Canada; \
Research Center for Interneural Computing, China Medical UniversityTaichung 40402, Taiwan\
ABSTRACT: Due to the increasing awareness and use of cloud and edge computing, society and industries are beginning to understand the benefits they can provide. Cloud and Edge are the future of information management, and they have transformed the Internet into an innovative and interactive computing platform. The ultimate goal of edge/cloud computing is to reduce the use of computing resources in the network, as well as support information sharing and intercommunication efforts within the network. Secure edge computing methodologies are applied in both open and heterogeneous network systems to protect them from many potential security threats. However, these approaches only provide passive protection for normal edge computing operations, and fail to address the security measures of several applications, particularly forensics in industrial settings. Forensics applications running on edge computing must be capable of support taking legal action against invaders for malicious damage or information theft. This paper proposes an efficient and reliable forensics framework (ERFF) to address industrial intelligent edge computing critical for the industry 4.0 implementation plan. The proposed ERFF consists of a detective module and validation model, with the detective module responsible for detecting the interaction between the client terminal and the edge resource, which means the investigator is capable of gathering the evidence securely. The security-validation model integrated with ERFF is far safer than sharing common key-based cryptographic approaches. The proposed conceptual framework is tested with Live Digital Forensic Framework for a Cloud (LDF2C), and results are compared with other existing industrial frameworks that fulfill fundamental ISO/IEC 17025 accreditation requirements, including Legal Reliable Forensic Framework (LRFF), Source Identification Network Forensics Framework (SINFF) and Logging Framework for Cloud Computing Forensic (LFCCF)). These frameworks were designed to support the digital forensic requirements of industry and academia, and experimental results validate the effectiveness of the proposed framework from reliability and efficiency perspectives as well as realistic scenarios \'a9 2021 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud computing;  Forensics framework;  Intelligent edge computing;  Peer-to-peer edges;  Reliability and efficiency;  Security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 63\
Salamh, F.E., Mirza, M.M., Karabiyik, U.\
57210393197;57222431842;56493051000;\
Uav forensic analysis and software tools assessment: Dji phantom 4 and matrice 210 as case studies\
(2021) Electronics (Switzerland), 10 (6), art. no. 733, pp. 1-14. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85102707354&doi=10.3390%2felectronics10060733&partnerID=40&md5=b18528dc638990a387678078270df194\
\
DOI: 10.3390/electronics10060733\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer and Information Technology, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN  47907, United States; \
Department of Computer Science, College of Computers and Information Technology, Taif University, Taif, 21944, Saudi Arabia\
ABSTRACT: Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) also known as drones have created many challenges to the digital forensic field. These challenges are introduced in all processes of the digital forensic investigation (i.e., identification, preservation, examination, documentation, and reporting). From identification of evidence to reporting, there are several challenges caused by the data type, source of evidence, and multiple components that operate UAVs. In this paper, we comprehensively reviewed the current UAV forensic investigative techniques from several perspectives. Moreover, the contributions of this paper are as follows: (1) discovery of personal identifiable information, (2) test and evaluation of currently available forensic software tools, (3) discussion on data storage mechanism and evidence structure in two DJI UAV models (e.g., Phantom 4 and Matrice 210), and (4) exploration of flight trajectories recovered from UAVs using a three-dimensional (3D) visualization software. The aforementioned contributions aim to aid digital investigators to encounter challenges posed by UAVs. In addition, we apply our testing, evaluation, and analysis on the two selected models including DJI Matrice 210, which have not been presented in previous works. \'a9 2021 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: 3D mapping;  Black box;  Chip-off forensics;  DJI Matrice 210;  DJI Phantom 4;  Tool evaluation;  UAV forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 64\
Choi, J., Park, J., Lee, S.\
57189995859;24529123400;36063408400;\
Forensic exploration on windows File History\
(2021) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 36, art. no. 301134, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85101346882&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2021.301134&partnerID=40&md5=d5d4ad21f63506924575a15703a47738\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2021.301134\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Cybersecurity, Korea University, 145 Anam-ro, Seongbuk-Gu, Seoul, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Nowadays, a proliferation of flash-memory-based storage devices makes it more difficult to recover deleted files in unallocated areas. Thus, it becomes more important for forensic examiners to find and utilize backed up data generated by specially prepared backup features. As an interesting example of them, File History (FH) included since Windows 8 is a backup feature that can be set and operated by a user. To enable FH, it is required to select a storage device for file backup operations which can be almost any type of storage devices, including a local drive, USB flash drive, network drive, etc. This special backup feature of course allows users to restore backed up files and delete old backup versions whenever they want. Therefore, it is necessary to be able to analyze forensic artifacts that show user behaviors relating to FH, during examination of Windows systems. In this paper, we deeply explore Windows FH feature from a digital forensics perspective. As a result, this paper proposes a three-step examination procedure along with detailed considerations for each step. We also analyze impacts of several anti-forensic actions that users can perform intentionally or unintentionally. Finally, this work develops an open-source tool for identifying FH related artifacts and analyzing user behaviors on backup operations. \'a9 2021 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensic implication;  File backup;  File history;  Forensic artifact;  Forensic procedure;  Log analysis;  Multi-source data analysis;  Open-source tool;  User behavior analysis;  Windows forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 65\
Apoorva, K.A., Sangeetha, S.\
57222072518;57201067555;\
Deep neural network and model-based clustering technique for forensic electronic mail author attribution\
(2021) SN Applied Sciences, 3 (3), art. no. 348, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85101292948&doi=10.1007%2fs42452-020-04127-6&partnerID=40&md5=ea46b1b560c0bb8986d757c83ea762db\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s42452-020-04127-6\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Applications, National Institute of Technology, TiruchirapalliTamil Nadu, India\
ABSTRACT: Electronic mail is the primary source of different cyber scams. Identifying the author of electronic mail is essential. It forms significant documentary evidence in the field of digital forensics. This paper presents a model for email author identification (or) attribution by utilizing deep neural networks and model-based clustering techniques. It is perceived that stylometry features in the authorship identification have gained a lot of importance as it enhances the author attribution task's accuracy. The experiments were performed on a publicly available benchmark Enron dataset, considering many authors. The proposed model achieves an accuracy of 94% on five authors, 90% on ten authors, 86% on 25 authors and 75% on the entire dataset for the Deep Neural Network technique, which is a good measure of accuracy on a highly imbalanced data. The second cluster-based technique yielded an excellent 86% accuracy on the entire dataset, considering the authors' number based on their contribution to the aggregate data. \'a9 2021, The Author(s).\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Author attribution;  Deep neural networks;  Digital forensics;  Enron;  Model-based clustering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 66\
Guo, Z., Yang, G., Chen, J., Sun, X.\
57219672095;8647279200;57221655154;8439524300;\
Fake face detection via adaptive manipulation traces extraction network\
(2021) Computer Vision and Image Understanding, 204, art. no. 103170, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85100321383&doi=10.1016%2fj.cviu.2021.103170&partnerID=40&md5=b205405529a32565c63b4a848fe7d0f3\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.cviu.2021.103170\
AFFILIATIONS: Hunan University, School of Information Science and Engineering, Changsha, 410082, China; \
Nanjing University of Information Science and Technology, School of Computer and Software, Nanjing, 210044, China\
ABSTRACT: With the proliferation of face image manipulation (FIM) techniques such as Face2Face and Deepfake, more fake face images are spreading over the internet, which brings serious challenges to public confidence. Face image forgery detection has made considerable progresses in exposing specific FIM, but it is still in scarcity of a robust fake face detector to expose face image forgeries under complex scenarios such as with further compression, blurring, scaling, etc. Due to the relatively fixed structure, convolutional neural network (CNN) tends to learn image content representations. However, CNN should learn subtle manipulation traces for image forensics tasks. Thus, we propose an adaptive manipulation traces extraction network (AMTEN), which serves as pre-processing to suppress image content and highlight manipulation traces. AMTEN exploits an adaptive convolution layer to predict manipulation traces in the image, which are reused in subsequent layers to maximize manipulation artifacts by updating weights during the back-propagation pass. A fake face detector, namely AMTENnet, is constructed by integrating AMTEN with CNN. Experimental results prove that the proposed AMTEN achieves desirable pre-processing. When detecting fake face images generated by various FIM techniques, AMTENnet achieves an average accuracy up to 98.52%, which outperforms the state-of-the-art works. When detecting face images with unknown post-processing operations, the detector also achieves an average accuracy of 95.17%. \'a9 2021 Elsevier Inc.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Face image manipulation;  Manipulation traces extraction;  Passive image forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 67\
Mahr, A., Cichon, M., Mateo, S., Grajeda, C., Baggili, I.\
57221636508;57221636902;57221636130;57195275983;37261105300;\
Zooming into the pandemic! A forensic analysis of the Zoom Application\
(2021) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 36, art. no. 301107, . Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85099654963&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2021.301107&partnerID=40&md5=5c406d12d542b09803d2133027d322a5\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2021.301107\
AFFILIATIONS: Cyber Forensics Research and Education Group (UNHcFREG), Samuel S. Bergami Jr. Cybersecurity Center, Connecticut Institute of Technology, University of New Haven, 300 Boston Post Rd., West Haven, CT  06516, United States\
ABSTRACT: The global pandemic of COVID-19 has turned the spotlight on video conferencing applications like never before. In this critical time, applications such as Zoom have experienced a surge in its user base jump over the 300 million daily mark (ZoomBlog, 2020). The increase in use has led malicious actors to exploit the application, and in many cases perform Zoom Bombings. Therefore forensically examining Zoom is inevitable. Our work details the primary disk, network, and memory forensic analysis of the Zoom video conferencing application. Results demonstrate it is possible to find users' critical information in plain text and/or encrypted/encoded, such as chat messages, names, email addresses, passwords, and much more through network captures, forensic imaging of digital devices, and memory forensics. Furthermore we elaborate on interesting anti-forensics techniques employed by the Zoom application when contacts are deleted from the Zoom application's contact list. \'a9 2021 The Authors\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Artifacts;  Disk;  Memory forensics;  Network;  Zoom video conferencing\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 68\
Heckmann, T., Souvignet, T., Sauveron, D., Naccache, D.\
57191959193;55943465400;9734759200;56187306700;\
Medical Equipment Used for Forensic Data Extraction: A low-cost solution for forensic laboratories not provided with expensive diagnostic or advanced repair equipment\
(2021) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 36, art. no. 301092, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85098791134&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2020.301092&partnerID=40&md5=23951e42d1808bbaa805cf18b7d6ef13\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2020.301092\
AFFILIATIONS: Research Center of the French Gendarmerie Officers Academy (CREOGN), Department of Research, Avenue du 13\'e8me Dragons, Melun, 77000, France; \
Forensic Sciences Institute of the French Gendamerie (FSIFG), Digital Forensics Department, 5, boulevard de l'Hautil, Cergy-Pontoise, 95300, France; \
Ecole normale sup\'e9rieure, Information Security Group, Computer Science Department, 45, rue d'Ulm, Paris, 75230, France; \
University of Lausanne, Ecole des Sciences criminelles, Lausanne, CH-1015, Switzerland; \
XLIM (UMR CNRS 7252 / University of Limoges), Facult\'e9 des Sciences et Techniques, 123, avenue Albert Thomas, Limoges, 87060, France\
ABSTRACT: The data found on mobile phones, SIM cards, micro-SD cards, or Internet of Things devices are often decisive for judicial investigations because they provide a wealth of information to guide investigations; not to say solve them. However, investigators have to deal with two problems that greatly complicate the extraction of data from digital equipment: encryption of data and damage to the evidence (explosion, immersion, deliberate destruction, air crash, accidents). In these cases, investigators often have to be creative in order to successfully extract data from electronic devices in a judicial setting. Using medical equipment for data extraction is a new way that perfectly illustrates this creativity, which is necessary otherwise the investigator will be blocked by the new technology of protection and encryption. In this paper we will make use of four medical materials and equipment used routinely in the forensic autopsy field: the mobile 2D X-ray radiograph (used by dentists), the whole body 3D X-ray scanner, the dental control unit (burr and drill of dentists for legal odontolgy), and dental paste to model the teeth when identifying disaster victims. This work introduces medical materials and equipment that can be used by investigators for data extraction and introduces cheap alternatives for existing expensive solutions from the failure analysis industry. To demonstrate feasibility, we describe in detail experimental forensic cases in which medical devices could help data extraction: reverse-engineering, diagnostic samples, and preparation of mobile phones for forensic transplantation. In the final part, we look at the legal medicine of the future. We believe that the autopsy of tomorrow will definitely have to be supplemented by analysis of the electronic components present in the body (pacemaker, bio-sensor). Medical examiners and experts in electronics must now work together to put in place the forensic procedures of tomorrow. \'a9 2020 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forensics transplantation;  Hardware forensics;  Medical equipment\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 69\
Kim, H., Kim, I., Kim, K.\
57221104353;57221094887;57193757172;\
AIBFT: Artificial Intelligence Browser Forensic Toolkit\
(2021) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 36, art. no. 301091, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85098160441&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2020.301091&partnerID=40&md5=d9183ed9e6a8985969a065dd184616e4\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2020.301091\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Forensic Sciences, Naif Arab University for Security Sciences, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; \
School of Cybersecurity, Korea University, Seoul, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: In the modern age of content, web browsers serve as an important bridge between content and users. On the other hand, web browsers are also a link to malicious codes, and new types of malicious codes that are secretly mining through browsers are being created. In recent years, a web browser investigation is essential to find the path of malicious code infection when a security incident occurs. However, the content became vast, and as network performance is getting better, websites are getting bigger, and the number of web pages included in a single website has increased exponentially. It is almost impossible to manually analyze all of the thousands of sites due to time limitations. In this paper, we propose a method to apply machine learning to web browser forensics to solve these problems. Also, we propose AIBFT: Artificial Intelligence Browser Forensic Toolkit, a Proof-of-Concept (POC) tool that provides automatic detection of malicious webpages using AI models, analysis of malicious probability, and timeline visualization. We collected 52,500 benign and malicious web pages for AI models and learning. As a result of applying the randomforest algorithm among AI algorithms, we could achieve 99.8% accuracy. \'a9 2020 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: AI Based forensic AIBFT;  Artificial intelligence browser forensic artifact\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 70\
Casey, E., Zehnder, A.\
9843819800;57220059116;\
Inter-regional digital forensic knowledge management: needs, challenges, and solutions\
(2021) Journal of Forensic Sciences, 66 (2), pp. 619-629. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85096706071&doi=10.1111%2f1556-4029.14613&partnerID=40&md5=2919901385336220b3da54359e0788d1\
\
DOI: 10.1111/1556-4029.14613\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Lausanne, Vaux, Switzerland\
ABSTRACT: Increasing demand for digital evidence in criminal investigations is driving decentralization of forensic capabilities closer to the crime scene. Law enforcement agencies are struggling to keep pace with technological developments, cybercrime growth, and scientific advances. In federated environments, digital forensic knowledge and practices vary widely across regions. To reduce delays, wasted resources, missed opportunities, mistakes, and misinterpretations, there is a pressing need to balance the democratization of digital forensic capabilities with knowledge management and sharing between decentralized regions. There are multiple forms of knowledge to be managed, including procedural, technical, investigative, scientific, behavioral, crime analysis, and forensic intelligence. In addition, there are multiple knowledge producers and consumers, including police investigators, digital forensic practitioners, criminal intelligence analysts, attorneys, and judges. Knowledge management becomes even more challenging when multiple interdependent regions are involved, speaking different languages. Taking all of these factors into consideration, this work presents an inter-regional knowledge management solution for improving the quality, consistency, reliability, efficiency, cost-effectiveness, and return on investment of digital forensic capabilities. The basis of this work is a community-driven initiative of Swiss regional police authorities. Interviews were conducted with 15 digital forensic units to determine their current knowledge management practices and needs. The results were then generalized into a prioritized set of requirements for inter-regional digital forensic knowledge management that may be applicable in other countries. These requirements were used to evaluate knowledge management platforms, and one was selected. Implementation, operations, and maintenance challenges of an inter-regional digital forensic knowledge management platform are discussed. \'a9 2020 American Academy of Forensic Sciences\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: collaboration;  communication;  digital forensics;  digital investigation;  efficiency;  IT investigation;  knowledge management and exchange;  optimization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 71 **SELECTED** SID: 4\
Bhat, W.A., AlZahrani, A., Wani, M.A.\
55199596100;57197006041;57202132834;\
Can computer forensic tools be trusted in digital investigations?\
(2021) Science and Justice, 61 (2), pp. 198-203. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85095821409&doi=10.1016%2fj.scijus.2020.10.002&partnerID=40&md5=869bd08250b0dbc6a6265ac2c3dc2cb5\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.scijus.2020.10.002\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Computer & Information Systems, Islamic University of Madinah, Saudi Arabia; \
Department of Computer Sciences, University of Kashmir, India\
ABSTRACT: This paper investigates whether computer forensic tools (CFTs) can extract complete and credible digital evidence from digital crime scenes in the presence of file system anti-forensic (AF) attacks. The study uses a well-established six stage forensic tool testing methodology based on black-box testing principles to carry out experiments that evaluate four leading CFTs for their potential to combat eleven different file system AF attacks. Results suggest that only a few AF attacks are identified by all the evaluated CFTs, while as most of the attacks considered by the study go unnoticed. These AF attacks exploit basic file system features, can be executed using simple tools, and even attack CFTs to accomplish their task. These results imply that evidences collected by CFTs in digital investigations are not complete and credible in the presence of AF attacks. The study suggests that practitioners and academicians should not absolutely rely on CFTs for evidence extraction from a digital crime scene, highlights the implications of doing so, and makes many recommendations in this regard. The study also points towards immediate and aggressive research efforts that are required in the area of computer forensics to address the pitfalls of CFTs. \'a9 2020 The Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Black-box testing;  Computer forensic tools;  File systems;  Forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 72\
Rajesh, P., Mohammed Ismail, B., Alam, M., Tahernezhadi, M., Monika, A.\
57210182077;55366352600;57219245172;7004587443;57226371447;\
Network Forensics Investigation in Virtual Data Centers Using ELK\
(2021) ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, pp. 175-179. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85113227860&doi=10.1145%2f3459104.3459135&partnerID=40&md5=4edd1f6a74be3b3132bccb35551eb969\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3459104.3459135\
AFFILIATIONS: K L Deemed to Be University, India; \
Kannur University Campus Mangattuparamba, India; \
Niu, United States; \
Northern Illinois University, United States; \
Sanjivani College of Engineering, Maharashtra, India\
ABSTRACT: Network forensics is a focus on collecting, monitoring, reporting Network log analysis and investigation success or failure in a network. Major goal of security provided to the network is to protect sensitive customer information online, Lateral movement with RDP (Remote Desktop Protocol), Ransomware running on an endpoint, large Data exfiltration from multiple endpoints, malicious attacks etc, degrade Network Performance. but crime scenario starts to identify crimes and evidence network attack digital device or another component. Network access logs analysis main part in the investigation. Network forensic is an offset of digital forensics used for the monitoring and analysis of computer network traffic intended for collecting information, lawful proof against illegal activity, or intrusion detection on the network. Network examination manages unstable and persuasive data. The project is intended to deliver the device relying upon the point of view of Network investigation in Virtual Data Canters. Proposed methodology is based on ELK Stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, and Kibana) to collecting, monitoring, reporting Network log analysis and Machine learning Techniques to automate the cron job process. It additionally helps in law requirement investigation. Data center is using virtual networks have problem for log analysis and real time log in time stamp based analysis using network forensics approaches. Network forensics investigation in virtual data-center is an art and science seeking to make sense out of computer-generated records. Network forensics investigation is a process to identify suspected logs in a network. Data center have huge amount of log file generated Esxi server, VCenter, VMware. \'a9 2021 ACM.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 73\
Bi, X.-L., Qiu, Y.-M., Xiao, B., Li, W.-S., Ma, J.-F.\
56704346000;57222086891;57201773066;36067507500;56237437100;\
Histogram Equalization Detection Based on Statistical Features in Digital Image [
\f2 \'bb\'f9\'d3\'da\'cd\'b3\'bc\'c6\'cc\'d8\'d5\'f7\'b5\'c4\'cd\'bc\'cf\'f1\'d6\'b1\'b7\'bd\'cd\'bc\'be\'f9\'ba\'e2\'bb\'af\'bc\'ec\'b2\'e2\'b7\'bd\'b7\'a8
\f0 ]\
(2021) Jisuanji Xuebao/Chinese Journal of Computers, 44 (2), pp. 292-303. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85101418901&doi=10.11897%2fSP.J.1016.2021.00292&partnerID=40&md5=ef9aa8c79217a1752fc6f3b7e8982cd3\
\
DOI: 10.11897/SP.J.1016.2021.00292\
AFFILIATIONS: Chongqing Key Laboratory of Image Cognition, Chongqing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Chongqing, 400065, China; \
College of Network and Information Security, Xidian University, Xi'an, 710071, China\
ABSTRACT: Nowadays, it is extremely easy to alter or fabricate an image. There are many unreal images widely spreading on the Internet. From the perspective of information security, the wrong information displayed by the unreal images will bring immeasurable harm. According to whether the content of image expression is changed or not, the types of tampered images can be divided into two major categories. The first type is malicious modification of image expression content according to requirements. This type of tampering mainly includes copy-move, splicing. The second kind of tampering mainly affects the visual effect of images. Such tampering operations are often regarded as post-processing steps of the first kind of tampering operations, such as compression, blurring and contrast enhancement. The purpose of this type of tampering is mainly to hide the difference between the tampered expression content and the untampered area in the image by adjusting the visual effect of the image, so as to cover up the tampering traces. In the previous image contrast enhancement tamper detection work, researchers have put forward a lot of excellent tamper detection methods. However, they also have some disadvantages, such as no support for post-compression processing and narrow application scope. Aiming at histogram equalization in image contrast enhancement, this paper proposes a histogram equalization detection method based on statistical features in images. In this paper, the image histogram and cumulative distribution function curve are used to extract the trace features of histogram equalization for realizing the digital forensic of histogram equalization. Firstly, the proposed method adaptively chooses the gray scale which is most likely to have the histogram equalization traces in the image by using the trend of the cumulative distribution function curve of the image. Because in the image histogram, not all the gray levels have reflected the image histogram equalization traces. It can be known that histogram equalization is realized by using cumulative distribution function, and the processed image has an almost flat and uniform histogram by redistributing pixel intensity. Therefore, histogram equalization will leave inherent and detectable traces in image cumulative distribution function and histogram. In the second step of our method, the similarity of cumulative distribution function and identity function, and the number of zero-value gaps of histogram are extracted as classification features respectively in this gray scale range. Due to the number of features is small, in order to save time, K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN) classification algorithm is used to quickly classify and judge whether the image is histogram equalization or not. Four sets of verification experiments are designed to verify the performance of this method from four aspects: feasibility of the method, applicability for small resolution images, robustness of post-compression processing and ability to distinguish histogram equalization from other contrast enhancement operations. Experimental results show that the proposed method can realize the stability detection of uncompressed image and JPEG compressed image. It is applicable to images of various resolutions and robust to post-compression processing. In addition, the method can distinguish histogram equalization and other contrast enhancement operations. \'a9 2021, Science Press. All right reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cumulative distribution function;  Histogram equalization detection;  K-Nearest Neighbor classification;  Statistical features\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 74\
Yang, W.-C., Jiang, J., Chen, C.-H.\
55501209100;57214806051;7501952105;\
A fast source camera identification and verification method based on PRNU analysis for use in video forensic investigations\
(2021) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 80 (5), pp. 6617-6638. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85092781433&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-020-09763-z&partnerID=40&md5=440765c2a5e62cc153db8cf9f3a7a955\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-020-09763-z\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Forensic Science, Central Police University, Taoyuan City, Taiwan; \
Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA, United States\
ABSTRACT: Due to the rapid development of digital and cloud technologies, everyone can easily shoot and spread digital videos via email or social media. However, it is difficult for law enforcement to trace the origin of those digital videos, while some videos or images containing illegal information such as personal privacy, obscene pornography, and national security-related content. Recently, a significant breakthrough is achieved by using Photo-Response Non-Uniformity (PRNU) noise to characterize the camera sensor. However, PRNU analysis is often carried out on a frame-by-frame basis. As a result, the processing time is unbearable when treating a large set of videos and devices. In this paper, we propose a novel video forensic method considering both cameras rolling and I-frame of videos to improve the processing time and accuracy. Experimental results demonstrate that our proposed method is at a minimum of 15 times on average faster than the most wildly used method, PRNU analysis, and reduce the false positive rate as compared to existing methods used in the field of the forensic examination. \'a9 2020, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forensic science;  Photo-response non-uniformity;  Source camera identification;  Video forensic investigation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 75\
Rosli, N.A., Sheikh Abdullah, S.N.H., Zamani, A.N., Ghazvini, A., Md Othman, N.S., Muariff Tajuddin, N.A.A.A.\
57223025229;36057249600;57223032004;57212947298;57223032103;57223021416;\
Comparison Multi Transfer Learning Models for Deep Fake Image Recognizer\
(2021) 2021 3rd International Cyber Resilience Conference, CRC 2021, art. no. 9392566, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85104538038&doi=10.1109%2fCRC50527.2021.9392566&partnerID=40&md5=75f7fbf088658b6177812593e322e42f\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CRC50527.2021.9392566\
AFFILIATIONS: Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Faculty of Information Science and Technology, Digital Forensics Lab, Center for Cyber Security, Bangi, Malaysia; \
Cybersecurity Malaysia, Level 7, Tower 1, Menara Cyber Axis, Jalan Impact, Cyberjaya, Selangor, 63000, Malaysia; \
Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Faculty of Information Science and Technology, Bangi, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: The advancement of technologies nowadays cause image digitally to become essential as an official document many available applications used for image editing. Those applications have become a threat to detect image authenticity when dealing with an abundance of digital image evidence in cyber court. Hence, many researchers realize the importance of image authentication fields as deep fake is a powerful weapon for spreading misinformation on the digital platform. Deep learning has known to obtain relevant attributes automatically in placing handcrafted features in a deep network against other single-layer networks. The objective of the research is to compare two models from Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), which are VGG19 dan ResNet50 in deep learning with transfer learning for image fake detector. A total of 1500 random images consisting of 450 forgery images from the IEEE Image Forensics Challenge in 2013 were tested on the splicing technique. From this research, we used two transfer learning techniques to identify tamper images from image splicing. Based on model VGG16 and ResNet50 transfer learning, the accuracy achieved about 94.65% and 95.08%, respectively. \'a9 2021 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: deep fake a transfer learning;  deep learning;  neural network\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 76\
Hasan, M.A., Lawlor, O., Jahan, N.\
57222375873;6506614949;57220937477;\
Forensic analysis of binary structures of video files\
(2021) 2021 IEEE 5th International Conference on Cryptography, Security and Privacy, CSP 2021, art. no. 9357570, pp. 200-204. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85102505878&doi=10.1109%2fCSP51677.2021.9357570&partnerID=40&md5=ca4b8b78ad4cdacb81793ba4023a2f12\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CSP51677.2021.9357570\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, AL, United States; \
Department of Computer Science, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, AL, United States\
ABSTRACT: As technology advances, multimedia files such as videos are susceptible to manipulation. This has led to serious concerns that images and videos are not trustworthy evidence as the files can be manipulated easily. As a result, forensic analysis of electronic multimedia files plays an important role in verifying the authenticity of video files. This paper provides comprehensive details of a binary file forensic analysis technique for different media file containers, mostly focused on AVI and MP4/MOV container format. We also provide a considerable number of details to identify a forgery among video files. We present pivotal parameters which need to be tested to authenticate a video file. By analyzing the binary data structures and metadata, we can detect the use of editing tools, verify the purported source of a video file, and identify the true acquisition device model. \'a9 2021 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Authentication;  Data structures;  Forensic Analysis;  Metadata;  Video container\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 77\
Mahrous, W.A., Farouk, M., Darwish, S.M.\
57351266100;57351249500;16066562900;\
An Enhanced Blockchain-Based IoT Digital Forensics Architecture Using Fuzzy Hash\
(2021) IEEE Access, 9, pp. 151327-151336. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85119719422&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2021.3126715&partnerID=40&md5=a1dd39f123b4561486cc8a3784189484\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3126715\
AFFILIATIONS: Higher Institute for Tourism, Hotels and Computer, Al-Seyouf, Alexandria, Egypt; \
Management Information System Department, Agami Higher Institute of Administrative Sciences, Alexandria, Egypt; \
Department of Information Technology, Institute of Graduate Studies and Research, Alexandria University, Alexandria, Egypt\
ABSTRACT: Due to businesses' growing use of IoT services in their day-to-day operations and the increased use of smart devices, digital forensic investigations involving such systems will need increasingly sophisticated digital evidence collection and processing. The majority of IoT systems are composed of disparate software and hardware components, which may pose security and privacy concerns. Recently, blockchain technology was presented as one of the options for achieving IoT security via the use of an immutable ledger, a decentralized architecture, and strong cryptographic primitives. Integrating blockchain platforms with IoT-based applications, on the other hand, poses a number of difficulties owing to the trustworthiness, integrity, and real-time responsiveness of IoT data. However, certain IoT devices may be incompatible with existing blockchain-based IoT forensic methods for additional digital evidence processing owing to their usage of conventional hash. A critical feature of cryptographic hash functions is that even if just one bit of the input is altered, the output acts pseudo-randomly, making it impossible to identify identical files. However, in the field of computer forensics, it is essential to locate comparable files (e.g., various versions of a file); therefore, we need a hash function that preserves similarity. It is getting more difficult to establish how forensic investigators might utilize traces from such devices. To effectively deal with IoT digital forensics applications, this article presents an improved blockchain-based IoT digital forensics architecture that uses the fuzzy hash to construct the Blockchain's Merkle tree in addition to the conventional hash for authentication. Fuzzy hashing enables the identification of potentially damning documents that might otherwise remain undiscovered using conventional hashing techniques. By comparing blocks/files to all nodes in the blockchain network using fuzzy hash similarity, the digital forensics investigator will be able to verify their authenticity. To support the proof of concept, we simulated the suggested model. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Blockchain;  digital examination;  fuzzy hash;  Internet of Things;  IoT forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 78\
Li, Z., Liu, X., Garcia, M.A., McAllister, C.D.\
57347031900;57346546900;57347188100;57197913580;\
Construct Forensic Evidence Networks from Information Fragments\
(2021) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, LNICST, 394 LNICST, pp. 702-714. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85119453192&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-89814-4_51&partnerID=40&md5=ae00391ea5a0391e951234b0063500cf\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-89814-4_51\
AFFILIATIONS: Southeast Missouri State University, Cape Girardeau, MO  63701, United States\
ABSTRACT: The advancement of modern technologies led to many challenges for digital forensic investigators, who now need to know every fragmentary, trivial, and isolated digital information to stitch an overall, solid evidence picture for each case. While the reality is they lack a mature model to help them accomplish their high-demanded works (such as data collection, protection, retrieval, recovery, analytic, archive). In this paper, we introduce a new concept, \'93Evidence Networks\'94, and propose to build solid evidence networks from information pieces by reusing the existing successful network models. Additionally, the jigsaw puzzle model is used to analyze the practical problems that an evidence network may encounter. \'a9 2021, ICST Institute for Computer Sciences, Social Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Correlation coefficient;  Digital forensics;  Network model;  Path cost\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 79\
Marshall, K., Rea, A.\
57326637900;7004718543;\
Legal challenges in cloud forensics\
(2021) 27th Annual Americas Conference on Information Systems, AMCIS 2021, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85118672987&partnerID=40&md5=bcb1398183dd17d26d98ac45a1f2ea09\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Western Michigan University, United States\
ABSTRACT: As the cloud landscape and its number of users continues to grow, so does the amount of criminal activity and evidence on and in the cloud. The need for capable cloud forensic investigations is increasing; however, owing to the slow pace of legal systems compared with the inherent rapidity of technological change, the field of Cloud Forensics is faced with many legal issues and challenges, including blurred jurisdictional boundaries; lack of physical access to media; admissibility of evidence; data ownership uncertainties; and weak chain of custody proofs. The bulk of the research focuses not on technical challenges, but on cloud computing and its associated legal challenges. It sheds light on these legal issues by exploring and identifying legal challenges and lacking existence of standards for cloud forensic investigations. To alleviate difficulties faced in cloud forensic investigations, multiple recommendations are offered. \'a9 AMCIS 2021.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud forensics;  Cloud service providers;  Digital forensic investigations;  Legal challenges\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 80\
Liao, Z., Pang, X., Zhang, J., Xiong, B., Wang, J.\
36189726000;57324554800;57189660023;57324181200;57200027740;\
Blockchain on Security and Forensics Management in Edge Computing for IoT: A Comprehensive Survey\
(2021) IEEE Transactions on Network and Service Management, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85118549692&doi=10.1109%2fTNSM.2021.3122147&partnerID=40&md5=206793925c06bf998017fa2ddd8e691a\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TNSM.2021.3122147\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer and Communication Engineering, Changsha University of Science and Technology, Changsha, Hunan, 410114 China. (e-mail: zfliao@foxmail.com); \
Department of Computer and Communication Engineering, Changsha University of Science and Technology, Changsha, Hunan, 410114 China.\
ABSTRACT: Security and forensics represent two key components for network management, especially to guarantee the trusted operation of massive access networks such as the Internet of Things (IoT). As a core technology to provide low latency and high communication for IoT, Mobile Edge Computing (MEC) pulls computing resources from remote cloud centers to devices. The process of MEC service involves three types of entities: devices, data generated by devices and digital evidence generated after the data interaction. These entities are fully distributed and difficult to protect through traditional, highly centralized security and authentication mechanisms. As a decentralized shared ledger and database, the emerging blockchain is considered to provide cooperative trust and collaborative action among multiple subjects while ensuring the integrity and confidentiality of data. Because of its anonymity, non-tampering and traceability, the blockchain arouses research on the combination of blockchain and edge computing for device security, data security and forensics in IoT. This survey analyzes the application of blockchain in MEC-IoT systems and mainly focuses on approaches and technologies to manage the security and forensics issues for IoT. Finally, we present open issues and prospects for future work and research directions. IEEE\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Blockchain;  Blockchains;  Data security;  forensics.;  Internet of Things;  IoT;  mobile edge computing;  Protocols;  Quality of service;  Security;  security;  Servers\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Article in Press\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 81\
Ma, J., Yao, H., Ni, R., Zhao, Y.\
57316043800;57208337527;55632437300;35304414700;\
Slow Video Detection Based on Spatial-Temporal Feature Representation\
(2021) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 13021 LNCS, pp. 298-309. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85118224805&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-88010-1_25&partnerID=40&md5=59728ca236b7a8c85f9f760a73387f57\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-88010-1_25\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Information Science, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, 100044, China; \
Beijing Key Laboratory of Advanced Information Science and Network Technology, Beijing, 100044, China\
ABSTRACT: As the carrier of information, digital video plays an important role in daily life. With the development of video editing tools, the authenticity of video is facing enormous challenges. As an inter-frame forgery, video speed manipulation may lead to the complete change of the video semantics. In this paper, in order to achieve effective detection for both frame sampling and frame mixing in video slow speed forgery, we proposed a spatial-temporal feature for classification. First, the periodic traces of frame difference are extracted through autocorrelation analysis, and the corresponding coefficients are used as the temporal feature. Secondly, aiming at making full use of the artifacts left in the spatial domain, and overcoming the issue of the temporal feature when the periodic traces are weak, we employ the Markov feature of the frame difference to reveal spatial traces of the forgery and utilize minimum fusion strategy to obtain the video-level spatial feature. Finally, a specific joint spatial-temporal feature is used to detect the slow speed videos through Ensemble classifier. A large number of experiments have proved the superiority of our proposed feature compared with the state-of-the-art method under two kinds of slow speed forgeries. \'a9 2021, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Ensemble classifier;  Slow speed forgery;  Spatial-temporal feature;  Video forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 82\
Gao, R., Li, X., Zhao, Y.\
57315995700;35280446200;35304414700;\
A Novel Method of Cropped Images Forensics in Social Networks\
(2021) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 13020 LNCS, pp. 649-661. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85118219960&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-88007-1_53&partnerID=40&md5=6a0b42ac6fec2478cff9af903333be58\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-88007-1_53\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Information Science, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, 100044, China; \
Beijing Key Laboratory of Advanced Information Science and Network Technology, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, 100044, China\
ABSTRACT: Operation chain forensics has achieved many advanced results, however, the spread of images in Social Networks has brought greater challenges to forensic research. The processing of images by Social Networks reduces the effectiveness of current forensics methods. An example is that if images are exchanged through Social Networks, the features they rely on will no longer be valid for detecting cropped images. To solve this problem, this paper proposes a novel method to complete the task of cropped forensics on Social Networks. By analyzing the image processing characteristics of Social Networks, we designed a special feature named \'93block artifacts grayscale\'94 (BAGS) for crop detection based on block artifacts generated in JPEG compression. The proposed method is proved more accurate than some previous algorithms in cropped forensics in Social Networks, and it is also robust to serious re-compression. The proposed method modeled on Social Networks can promote other forensics issues. Moreover, the method provides a good direction for determining the process of enhanced filtering in Social Networks. \'a9 2021, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Block artifact gray scale;  Forensics of crop;  Operation chain;  Social networks\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 83\
Huang, D., Tang, W., Li, B.\
57216289023;56875051900;57102112000;\
Anti-forensics for Double JPEG Compression Based on Generative Adversarial Network\
(2021) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 12888 LNCS, pp. 759-771. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85116857408&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-87355-4_63&partnerID=40&md5=de2ef128f7ad75a453313bb2e5097ea8\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-87355-4_63\
AFFILIATIONS: Guangdong Key Laboratory of Intelligent Information Processing and Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Media Security, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, 518060, China; \
Institute of Artificial Intelligence and Blockchain, Guangzhou University, Guangdong, Guangzhou, 510006, China; \
Shenzhen Institute of Artificial Intelligence and Robotics for Society, Shenzhen, 518129, China\
ABSTRACT: The JPEG standard is one of the most widely used image formats. If a JPEG image is tampered and saved in JPEG format again, it would lead to double JPEG compression (DJPEG). Therefore, DJPEG detection is a research hotspot in image forensics. On the other side, tamperer would try to perform anti-forensics operation on DJPEG image to avoid detection, but there are few related reports so far. In this paper, we propose a DJPEG anti-forensics method based on a generative adversarial network called AFDJ-GAN (Anti-Forensics for Double JPEG Compression with Generative Adversarial Network). On behalf of the anti-forensics side, the generator takes the double JPEG compressed image as input, and obtains the reconstructed image removed from compression artifacts, and uses simulated JPEG compression to convert it into generated simulated Single JPEG compressed (SJPEG) image. On behalf of the forensics side, the discriminator tries to distinguish between real SJPEG image and generated simulated SJPEG image by the feature extracted by the simulated histogram layer. Via alternant updating these two networks, the generator can learn to erase the DJPEG traces. The experimental results show that the proposed method has achieved state-of-the-art anti-forensics performance against different DJPEG detectors, and outperformed existing methods with regards to image quality. \'a9 2021, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Double JPEG compression;  GAN\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 84\
Bakas, J., Naskar, R., Nappi, M., Bakshi, S.\
57203821101;53866980700;6603906020;37048401000;\
Object-based forgery detection in surveillance video using capsule network\
(2021) Journal of Ambient Intelligence and Humanized Computing, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85116445445&doi=10.1007%2fs12652-021-03511-3&partnerID=40&md5=9c7ecad3b559fe302c05d6e904ca997f\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s12652-021-03511-3\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, National Institute of Technology Rourkela, Rourkela, 769008, India; \
Department of Information Technology, Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology Shibpur, Shibpur, 711103, India; \
Department of Computer Science, University of Salerno, Salerno, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Due to the rapid growth of digital multimedia technology, the importance of multimedia data such as digital images/videos is increasing rapidly in diverse domains. This includes surveillance CCTV footages, which act as primary evidences in many court cases, including highly sensitive contexts. Today, with the wide availability of low-cost image/video manipulating software, digital images/videos have become highly vulnerable to manipulation/modification attacks; one such attack is the class of object-based forgery in surveillance videos. In this paper, we propose a Capsule Network based digital forensic technique for detection of object-based forgery in surveillance videos. In the proposed technique, we use motion residual, computed from every video frame, to extract intra- and inter-frame inherent statistical characteristics of the video sequence, as the input of capsule network. Our experimental results indicate that the proposed technique achieves significant performance in terms of authentic, double compressed and forged frame detection, irrespective of the group of pictures length and degree of compression in videos. \'a9 2021, The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Capsule Network;  Intra-Frame Forgery;  Object-Based Forgery;  Surveillance Video;  V\'eddeo Forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Article in Press\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 85\
AlHarbi, R., AlZahrani, A., Bhat, W.A.\
57285565100;57197006041;55199596100;\
Forensic analysis of anti-forensic file-wiping tools on Windows\
(2021) Journal of Forensic Sciences, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85116429589&doi=10.1111%2f1556-4029.14907&partnerID=40&md5=aaea9840e46e3167201db63157305038\
\
DOI: 10.1111/1556-4029.14907\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Computer & Information Systems, Islamic University of Madinah, Madinah, Saudi Arabia; \
Department of Computer Sciences, University of Kashmir, Srinagar, India\
ABSTRACT: This paper presents forensic analysis of anti-forensic file-wiping tools on the Windows platform. The goal is to identify and extract the evidence of the tools used to wipe files and the files wiped by them on the Windows operating system. To achieve this goal, we analyzed the changes made by these tools to metadata structures of Windows file systems during file wiping. We also analyzed Registry keys and.lnk files to collect the evidence. Our experiments used four file-wiping tools (SecureDelete v1.0, Secure Eraser v5.2, PC Shredder v1.1, and Blank and Secure v5.88) to wipe files on three Windows file systems (FAT32, exFAT and NTFS). The results suggest that FAT32 and exFAT file system directory structures and $MFT entries of NTFS file system can confirm the use of wiping tools, identify these tools and provide the remnants of the wiped files. Also, $LogFile and $UsnJrnl files of NTFS file system, and Windows Registry keys provide detailed evidence of wiping tools used and the files wiped by them. We also found that the contents of resident and non-resident alternate data streams, $LogFile and $UsnJrnl files, and Windows Registry keys are not wiped by these tools. Finally, this study makes many recommendations, highlights the limitations of the work and points out the future scope. \'a9 2021 American Academy of Forensic Sciences.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: anti-forensic tools;  computer forensics;  exFAT filesystem;  FAT32 filesystem;  file-wiping;  filesystem forensics;  NTFS filesystem\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Article in Press\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 86\
Li, W., Wang, Q., Wang, R., Zhao, L., Wang, L.\
57215563720;57216212246;57188670585;56461651900;57278471900;\
Exposing DeepFakes via Localizing the Manipulated Artifacts\
(2021) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 12919 LNCS, pp. 3-20. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85116072555&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-88052-1_1&partnerID=40&md5=a628b33447165d78f5e6bc19c875f359\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-88052-1_1\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Cyber Science and Engineering, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China; \
Key Laboratory of Aerospace Information Security and Trusted Computing, Ministry of Education, Wuhan, China\
ABSTRACT: In recent years, DeepFake has become a public concern due to the abuse of advanced generative adversarial networks (GANs). Researchers have proposed various approaches to fight against DeepFakes by identifying whether an image or video is synthesized by GANs. Due to the imperfect design of GANs, the introduced artifacts serve as a promising clue for detection, which is captured by many proposed methods. However, these methods failed in presenting the artifacts in an interpretable manner. In this paper, we propose a novel approach by focusing on the artifact regions with dual attention (channel attention and spatial attention) to localize the observable and invisible artifacts for assisting DeepFake detection. Specifically, our proposed approach is agnostic to the specific backbone, which could be easily plugged into any DNN models to improve their performance. Experimental results show that our proposed dual attention could be deployed in any DNN based classifiers to improve their performance in detecting various DeepFakes. The detection accuracy on six current open-source DeepFake datasets is improved by 3.50 %, 2.56 %, 1.64 %, 1.36 %, and 0.89 % in average on MesoNet, Meso-Inception, VGG-19, Xception, and EfficientNet, respectively. Besides, experimental results also show that our attention mechanism can serve as an asset for pixel-wise manipulation localization. \'a9 2021, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: DeepFake forensics;  Dual attention;  Localization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 87\
Shim, K.-S., Park, N.I., Kim, J.-H., Jeon, O.-Y., Lee, H.\
36684228400;57273604900;57273856600;6603333962;14024523600;\
Vehicle Speed Measurement Methodology Robust to Playback Speed-Manipulated Video File\
(2021) IEEE Access, 9, pp. 132862-132874. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85115790333&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2021.3115500&partnerID=40&md5=591d0121319d40d3c799fa51eb536ebc\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3115500\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Korea University, Seoul, 02841, South Korea; \
Digital Analysis Division, National Forensic Service, Wonju-si, 26460, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Concomitant with the virtual ubiquity of dashcams in vehicles, the instantaneous speed of vehicles during accidents can now be measured using dashcam videos to understand the causes of such accidents. In this study, we estimated vehicle speeds using dashcam videos recorded in various road environments and analyzed them by comparing them to ground truth. We also considered various scenarios yielding retaken and re-encoded videos from additional recording devices, depending on the circumstances, wherein the original video can be manipulated in terms of playback speed and/or frames per second. The experimental results revealed that the actual and measured speeds were similar for most user-specific intervals. Moreover, the results suggest that our estimated speed is adequately valid as evidence, regardless of retake and re-encoding states. Furthermore, we adopted a statistical approach (i.e., Pearson's correlation coefficient analysis) to verify the proposed vehicle speed estimation method. The results showed that when playback speed was manipulated in re-encoded or retaken video, the proposed method consistently measured speeds at 99.99 % accuracy. This verified method will play an important role in deriving reliable results from various evidential video sources. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Dashcam;  re-encoded video;  retake;  vehicle speed measurement;  video forensic;  video manipulation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 88\
Lee, S.J., Kim, G.B.\
57223927137;57223933510;\
K-FFRaaS: A Generic Model for Financial Forensic Readiness as a Service in Korea\
(2021) IEEE Access, 9, pp. 130094-130110. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85115719312&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2021.3114233&partnerID=40&md5=acdd7ea4622c2205b51f4a73e754ed38\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3114233\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Forensics, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul, South Korea; \
Capital Market Judiciary Enforcement Unit, Financial Supervisory Service, Seoul, 07321, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: While Korean financial companies are currently providing electronic financial services by establishing the high-level information technology and security system in accordance with the Electronic Financial Supervision Regulations (EFSR), they are rarely equipped with digital forensic readiness (DFR) to maximize the capability to collect critical digital evidence (DE). So, there is a limit to identifying the root cause of financial incidents and securing admissible DE. In this paper, we present Financial Forensic Readiness as a Service in Korea (K-FFRaaS), as DFR of financial companies to acquire an admissible DE. Based on ISO/IEC 27043:2015 international standard, K-FFRaaS consists of 3 main processes groups, namely: Planning processes group, Implementation processes group, and Assessment processes group. The purpose of planning processes group is to prepare the organization to be forensically ready before potential incidents happen. The main task of implementation processes group is to carry out the processes defined in the planning processes group. The goal of assessment processes group is to evaluate whether the result of the implementation processes group is consistent with the objective of K-FFRaaS. The contribution of this research is to present that financial companies can adopt the systematic management procedure for identifying causes of incidents, storing potential DE, and presenting scientific evidence to a court of law through K-FFRaaS. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  electronic finance;  forensic readiness;  ISO/IEC 27043:2015\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 89\
Kim, E., Cho, S.\
57214457474;7404885409;\
Exposing Fake Faces through Deep Neural Networks Combining Content and Trace Feature Extractors\
(2021) IEEE Access, 9, pp. 123493-123503. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85114750123&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2021.3110859&partnerID=40&md5=9653d63418df15534b7ea572795d6825\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3110859\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Business Administration, Chung-Ang University, Dongjak-gu, Seoul, 06974, South Korea; \
Department of Industrial Engineering, Seoul National University, Gwanak-gu, Seoul, 08826, South Korea; \
Institute for Industrial Systems Innovation, Seoul National University, Gwanak-gu, Seoul, 08826, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: With the breakthrough of computer vision and deep learning, there has been a surge of realistic-looking fake face media manipulated by AI such as DeepFake or Face2Face that manipulate facial identities or expressions. The fake faces were mostly created for fun, but abuse has caused social unrest. For example, some celebrities have become victims of fake pornography made by DeepFake. There are also growing concerns about fake political speech videos created by Face2Face. To maintain individual privacy as well as social, political, and international security, it is imperative to develop models that detect fake faces in media. Previous research can be divided into general-purpose image forensics and face image forensics. While the former has been studied for several decades and focuses on extracting hand-crafted features of traces left in the image after manipulation, the latter is based on convolutional neural networks mainly inspired by object detection models specialized to extract images' content features. This paper proposes a hybrid face forensics framework based on a convolutional neural network combining the two forensics approaches to enhance the manipulation detection performance. To validate the proposed framework, we used a public Face2Face dataset and a custom DeepFake dataset collected on our own. Experimental results using the two datasets showed that the proposed model is more accurate and robust at various video compression rates compared to the previous methods. Throughout class activation map visualization, the proposed framework provided information on which face parts are considered important and revealed the tempering traces invisible to naked eyes. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Convolutional neural networks;  DeepFake;  Face2Face;  fake face detection;  fake face image forensics;  multi-channel constrained convolution;  transfer learning\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 90\
Ferreira, A., Purnekar, N., Barni, M.\
57222250342;57255012400;7005442155;\
Ensembling Shallow Siamese Neural Network Architectures for Printed Documents Verification in Data-Scarcity Scenarios\
(2021) IEEE Access, 9, pp. 133924-133939. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85114713430&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2021.3110297&partnerID=40&md5=58a59e4eeac3ead5b98ef5dfd6ef7f6b\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3110297\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Engineering and Mathematics, University of Siena, Siena, 53100, Italy\
ABSTRACT: The popularity of printing devices has multiplied the diffusion of printed documents, raising concerns regarding the security and integrity of their content. The same device that prints reliable contracts, newspapers, and others, can also be used for malicious purposes, such as printing fake money, forging fake contracts, and produce illegal packaging, thus calling for the development of image forensics techniques to pinpoint criminal printed materials and trace back to their origin. Despite some recent advances, previous works model such a problem as a big data-focused closed-set classification problem. In this work, we address the source linking problem of printed color documents by treating it as a verification problem. Specifically, we aim at deciding if two documents have been printed by the same printer or not. To achieve this goal, and to cope with the data scarcity deriving from the difficulty of gathering massive amounts of printed and scanned documents, we propose to use an ensemble of Siamese Neural Networks, with unique architectures expressly designed to work with a small training dataset. As a further unique feature, the proposed approach is suited to work in an open set scenario, where the printers used to produce the documents analyzed at the test time are not included in the training set. Results obtained under both open and closed set conditions, with a thorough comparison with available baseline methods, showed classification performance higher than 97% in the closed set scenario and higher than 86% in the open set case, highlighting the practicality of such approaches in real-world scenarios. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital image forensics;  laser printer forensics;  printer source attribution;  Siamese networks\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 91\
Raskar, P.S., Shah, S.K.\
57192311510;57230324600;\
Methods for forgery detection in digital forensics\
(2021) International Journal of Electronic Security and Digital Forensics, 13 (5), pp. 528-547. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85114297713&doi=10.1504%2fIJESDF.2021.117310&partnerID=40&md5=5ce97885fb58c07b2bbf31c0bbaabac3\
\
DOI: 10.1504/IJESDF.2021.117310\
AFFILIATIONS: Sinhgad College of Engineering (E&TC), Savitribai Phule Pune University, Maharashtra, Pune, India; \
Smt. Kashibai Navale College of Engineering (E&TC), Savitribai Phule Pune University, Maharashtra, Pune, India\
ABSTRACT: The information present in the footage/video clip is one of the solid evidence of the event at the incidents. Therefore, visual media crime-scene investigation has risen as a crucial research field, which fundamentally promotes techniques to deal with forgeries in forensic videos. This paper takes a reader to simplify the understanding of the existing work and provides a profound study of the prevailing literature in the field of digital forgeries. The retrospective analysis helps to reconnoiter the work done to date by categorising the forgery detection techniques in four different domains. The first aspect of the paper is useful for people working on detecting copy-move attacks (CMA). The second domain scrutinises the tamper detection work based on motion estimation techniques. The third facet puts forward the details about forgery detection based on optical flow principal and the fourth section helps researchers to recognise current forensic developments in compressed videos. Copyright \'a9 2021 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: CMA;  Compression;  Copy-move attacks;  Digital forensics;  Forgery detection;  Motion estimation;  Optical-flow;  Video forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 92\
Zainudin, N.M., Hasbullah, N.A., Wook, M., Ramli, S., Razali, N.A.M.\
54929852600;37041249900;35793034600;24492727300;57226651314;\
Online social networks as supporting evidence for digital forensic investigation: A revised model\
(2021) Proceedings of the International Conference on Industrial Engineering and Operations Management, pp. 5338-5348. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85114253915&partnerID=40&md5=6ad6f9c9c822f21405ba65bf3e13ff55\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, National Defence University Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: In line with the increasing significance of technology today, the use of digital technology in digital forensic investigation has increased as well. The effect is that many investigations that require the expertise of digital forensics are unable be completed timely by law enforcement agencies around the world. Being consistent with the use of online social media which is the focus of the world nowadays, too many incidents of digital and physical crime have been linked to it. Therefore, a digital forensic model specifically for online social networks needs to be developed to obtain the best evidence and investigation results. A literature review related to digital forensic, models that have been developed in digital forensic and online social network has been conducted in this study. The results found that most studies involve general investigations and processes that overlap with each other. Moreover, there is no model yet to formulate a systemic investigation in the online social network. To overcome this problem, we have developed a standard model for digital forensic investigation of online social networks in this study. This model combines some of the models that have been developed before and added some new activities that are appropriate to the investigation. \'a9 IEOM Society International.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cybercrimes;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensic investigation model;  Online social network\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 93\
Sharma, H., Kanwal, N.\
57215412859;42661484200;\
Video interframe forgery detection: Classification, technique & new dataset\
(2021) Journal of Computer Security, 29 (5), pp. 531-550. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85113984850&doi=10.3233%2fJCS-200105&partnerID=40&md5=175f4f5d6a11feb8c3933d841b180ab1\
\
DOI: 10.3233/JCS-200105\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Punjabi University Patiala, Punjab, India\
ABSTRACT: Multimedia communication as well as other related innovations are gaining tremendous growth in the modern technological era. Even though digital content has traditionally proved to be a piece of legitimate evidence. But the latest technologies have lessened this trust, as a variety of video editing tools have been developed to modify the original video. Therefore, in order to resolve this problem, a new technique has been proposed for the detection of duplicate video sequences. The present paper utilizes gray values to extract Hu moment features in the current frame. These features are further used for classification of video as authentic or forged. Afterwards there was also need to validate the proposed technique using training and test dataset. But the scarcity of training and test datasets, however, is indeed one of the key problems to validate the effectiveness of video tampering detection techniques. In this perspective, the Video Forensics Library for Frame Duplication (VLFD) dataset has been introduced for frame duplication detection purposes. The proposed dataset is made of 210 native videos, in Ultra-HD and Full-HD resolution, captured with different cameras. Every video is 6 to 15 seconds in length and runs at 30 frames per second. All the recordings have been acquired in three different scenarios (indoor, outdoor, nature) and in landscape mode(s). VLFD includes both authentic and manipulated video files. This dataset has been created as an initial repository for manipulated video and enhanced with new features and new techniques in future. \'a9 2021 - IOS Press. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Dataset library;  frame duplication;  Hu moments;  interframe forgery;  Video forgery detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 94\
Yan, Z., Yang, P., Ni, R., Zhao, Y., Qi, H.\
57232222500;57193388775;55632437300;35304414700;7202348750;\
CNN-Based forensic method on contrast enhancement with JPEG post-processing\
(2021) Computers, Materials and Continua, 69 (3), pp. 3206-3216. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85113425526&doi=10.32604%2fcmc.2021.020324&partnerID=40&md5=778fe1ea57f9bd13a4ebec6df15760d2\
\
DOI: 10.32604/cmc.2021.020324\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Information Science, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, 100044, China; \
Beijing Key Laboratory of Advanced Information Science and Network Technology, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, 100044, China; \
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department, University of Tennessee Knoxville, Knoxville, TN  37996, United States\
ABSTRACT: As one of the most popular digital image manipulations, contrast enhancement (CE) is frequently applied to improve the visual quality of the forged images and conceal traces of forgery, therefore it can provide evidence of tampering when verifying the authenticity of digital images. Contrast enhancement forensics techniques have always drawn significant attention for image forensics community, although most approaches have obtained effective detection results, existing CE forensic methods exhibit poor performance when detecting enhanced images stored in the JPEG format. The detection of forgery on contrast adjustments in the presence of JPEG post processing is still a challenging task. In this paper, we propose a new CE forensic method based on convolutional neural network (CNN), which is robust to JPEG compression. The proposed network relies on a Xception-based CNN with two preprocessing strategies. Firstly, unlike the conventional CNNs which accepts the original image as its input, we feed the CNN with the gray-level co-occurrence matrix (GLCM) of image which contains CE fingerprints, then the constrained convolutional layer is used to extract high-frequency details in GLCMs under JPEG compression, finally the output of the constrained convolutional layer becomes the input of Xception to extract multiple features for further classification. Experimental results show that the proposed detector achieves the best performance for CE forensics under JPEG post-processing compared with the existing methods. \'a9 2021 Tech Science Press. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Contrast enhancement forensics;  Convolutional neural networks;  JPEG compression;  Robust forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 95\
Ding, F., Zhu, G., Li, Y., Zhang, X., Atrey, P.K., Lyu, S.\
56289824200;55839320700;57226455645;57218701409;6603382021;57226444267;\
Anti-Forensics for Face Swapping Videos via Adversarial Training\
(2021) IEEE Transactions on Multimedia, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85111593468&doi=10.1109%2fTMM.2021.3098422&partnerID=40&md5=5a7d50089afca3556ff7ca2e27d4ff6d\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TMM.2021.3098422\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Management, Nanchang University, 47861 Nanchang, Jiangxi, China, (e-mail: fding@albany.edu); \
School of Computer Science and Technology, Harbin Institute of Technology, 47822 Harbin, Heilongjiang, China, (e-mail: guopu.zhu@gmail.com); \
Institute of Advanced Computing and Digital Engineering, Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced Technology Chinese Academy of Sciences, 85411 Shenzhen, Guangdong, China, (e-mail: yc.li1@siat.ac.cn); \
School of Computer Science, Fudan University, 12478 Shanghai, Shanghai, China, (e-mail: zhangxinpeng@fudan.edu.cn); \
Computer Science, University at Albany State University of New York, 1084 Albany, New York, United States, 12222 (e-mail: patrey@albany.edu); \
Computer Science, State University of New York at Buffalo, 12292 Buffalo, New York, United States, (e-mail: slyu@albany.edu)\
ABSTRACT: Generating falsified faces by artificial intelligence, widely known as DeepFake, attracted attention worldwide since 2017. Given the potential threat brought by this novel technique, forensics researchers dedicated themselves to detect the video forgery. Except for exposing falsified faces, there could be extended research directions for DeepFake such as anti-forensics. It can disclose the vulnerability of current DeepFake forensics methods. Besides, it could also enable DeepFake videos as tactical weapons if the falsified faces are more subtle to be detected. In this paper, we propose a GAN model to behave as an anti-forensics tool. It features a novel architecture with additional supervising modules for enhancing image visual quality. Besides, a loss function is designed to improve the efficiency of the proposed model. Evaluated by experiments, we show that the DeepFake forensics detectors are susceptible to attacks launched by the proposed method. Besides, the proposed method can efficiently produce anti-forensics videos in satisfying visual quality without noticeable artifacts. Compared with the other anti-forensics approaches, this is tremendous progress achieved for DeepFake anti-forensics. The attack launched by our proposed method can be truly regarded as DeepFake anti-forensics as it can fool detecting algorithms and human eyes simultaneously. IEEE\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: anti-forensics;  DeepFake;  Detectors;  Digital forensics;  Faces;  Forensics;  generative adversarial network;  Information integrity;  Tools;  Videos;  Visualization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Article in Press\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 96\
Salamh, F.E., Mirza, M.M., Hutchinson, S., Yoon, Y.H., Karabiyik, U.\
57210393197;57222431842;57204422157;57218873317;56493051000;\
What's on the horizon? An in-depth forensic analysis of android and iOS applications\
(2021) IEEE Access, 9, art. no. 9477591, pp. 99421-99454. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85111137871&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2021.3095562&partnerID=40&md5=aef1345edd9d200f16b4500874bb09be\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3095562\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer and Information Technology, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN  47907, United States; \
Department of Computer Science, College of Computers and Information Technology, Taif University, Taif, 21944, Saudi Arabia\
ABSTRACT: In the digital forensics discipline, the lack of comprehensive research that addresses investigative challenges and opportunities for newer mobile Operating Systems (OSs) such as Android and iOS keeps continuing. These two OSs are currently widely operated by millions of smartphones and used by millions of users; therefore, forensic investigators need to be prepared to analyze these OSs during an investigation giving consideration to mobile app updates. The current research efforts focus on the forensic analysis of individual applications of certain OSs. In this study, we conducted a detailed forensic investigation of both Android and iOS OSs to (1) elucidate their structures for investigators, (2) identify pertinent forensic artifacts, (3) highlight any privacy and security concerns in popular applications present on both OSs, and (4) validate the forensic investigation on the selected tools for reproducibility and verification purposes. This work aims to analyze 27 Android and 33 iOS mobile applications comprehensively. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android forensics;  Investigative techniques;  IOS forensics;  Mobile forensics;  Personally identifiable information;  Privacy;  Security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 97\
Alam, M.M., Wang, W.\
57226236936;35304135700;\
A comprehensive survey on data provenance: State-of-the-art approaches and their deployments for IoT security enforcement\
(2021) Journal of Computer Security, 29 (4), pp. 423-446. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85111126613&doi=10.3233%2fJCS-200108&partnerID=40&md5=cef2ef96c7925b8258489ae958a424b9\
\
DOI: 10.3233/JCS-200108\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Software and Information Systems, University of North Carolina, Charlotte, NC, United States\
ABSTRACT: Data provenance collects comprehensive information about the events and operations in a computer system at both application and kernel levels. It provides a detailed and accurate history of transactions that help delineate the data flow scenario across the whole system. Data provenance helps achieve system resilience by uncovering several malicious attack traces after a system compromise that are leveraged by the analyzer to understand the attack behavior and discover the level of damage. Existing literature demonstrates a number of research efforts on information capture, management, and analysis of data provenance. In recent years, provenance in IoT devices attracts several research efforts because of the proliferation of commodity IoT devices. In this survey paper, we present a comparative study of the state-of-the-art approaches to provenance by classifying them based on frameworks, deployed techniques, and subjects of interest. We also discuss the emergence and scope of data provenance in IoT network. Finally, we present the urgency in several directions that data provenance needs to pursue, including data management and analysis. \'a9 2021 - IOS Press. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: cyber-physical systems;  Data provenance;  digital forensic;  information flow control;  Internet of Things\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 98\
Khan, A.A., Uddin, M., Shaikh, A.A., Laghari, A.A., Rajput, A.E.\
57223873126;42062605100;57202837224;57192411704;57213187881;\
MF-Ledger: Blockchain Hyperledger Sawtooth-Enabled Novel and Secure Multimedia Chain of Custody Forensic Investigation Architecture\
(2021) IEEE Access, 9, art. no. 9492114, pp. 103637-103650. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85111070859&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2021.3099037&partnerID=40&md5=8e129ed876d0b2615fe9b3fe2996e07b\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3099037\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Sindh Madressatul Islam University, Sindh, Karachi, 74000, Pakistan; \
Department of Computing Science and Information Technology, Benazir Bhutto Shaheed University Lyari, Sindh, Karachi, 75660, Pakistan; \
Digital Science, Faculty of Science, Universiti Brunei Darussalam, Gadong BE, BE1410, Brunei Darussalam; \
Department of Computer Science, College of Engineering, Effat University, Jeddah, 21478, Saudi Arabia\
ABSTRACT: Due to globalization and worldwide connectivity, multimedia data exchange has increased significantly over the Internet in the last decade. The life cycle of multimedia content is also getting more multifaceted as more people are accessing, sharing, modifying and re-using multimedia information. This poses serious challenges for the multimedia industry to provide integrity, reliability and trustworthiness for multimedia investigations against the growing cybersecurity threats. This paper bridges this gap by enabling a secure and transparent digital forensic investigations process using blockchain technology. MF-Ledger a Blockchain Hyperledger sawtooth-enabled novel, secure and efficient digital forensic investigation architecture is proposed where participating stakeholders create a private network to exchange and agree on different investigation activities before being stored on the blockchain ledger. We have created digital contracts (smart contracts) and implemented them using sequence diagrams to handle the stakeholders' secure interaction in the investigation process. The proposed architectural solution delivers robust information integrity, prevention, and preservation mechanism to permanently and immutably store the evidence (chain of custody) in a private permissioned encrypted blockchain ledger. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Blockchain;  digital forensics;  digital signatures;  evidence chain of custody;  hyperledger sawtooth;  smart contracts\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 99\
Senthil, P., Selvakumar, S.\
57225896405;57213299030;\
Digital Proof Collective Model Using Integrated Fusion Data Modelling\
(2021) Wireless Personal Communications, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85109635829&doi=10.1007%2fs11277-021-08713-8&partnerID=40&md5=8a0b962c9f0851702c46e05d22ed1a83\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11277-021-08713-8\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Vel Tech High Tech Dr. Rangarajan Dr. Sakunthala Engineering College, Chennai, Tamilnadu  600062, India; \
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, GKM College of Engineering & Technology, Chennai, Tamilnadu  600063, India\
ABSTRACT: Data security is critical, and security measures vary depending on the services and applications. The collection, analysis, and auditing of digital evidence, especially in forensic investigations, necessitates a high level of security and data analytics. The ultimate purpose is to preserve multimedia data in an inspection paradigm relying on auto classify and effective deduplication techniques. Information is more useful in legal, human rights, and crime investigation comparisons than in other data consumption applications. In the present situation, where there are a large number of witnesses at crime scenes, digital data or virtual proofs play an important role in the justice system. Virtual evidence security is in high demand in the forensic and criminal justice sectors. When the public wants to share virtual proof and facts, a reliable and efficient channel between the user and the server is needed. A digital forensic administrator must oversee the evidence transaction in the digital realm. Traditional third-party administrator auditing is needed when using the virtual proof collection system. When the proof is gathered, our proposed modal, which is incorporated, then based on data analytics, if many users exchanged, then the data becomes familiar unless unfamiliar. Check familiarity status has been set as the threshold value. This template fusion modal aids in the investigation and virtual proofing of data protection, as well as data analytics for successful deduplication. \'a9 2021, The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Deduplication;  Digital evidence;  Live data collection;  Multi-modal analysis;  protection of virtual data\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Article in Press\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 100\
Ding, X., Pan, Y., Luo, K., Huang, Y., Ouyang, J., Yang, G.\
55595491200;57225054146;57225032560;57213457141;55446539500;8647279200;\
Localization of deep video inpainting based on spatiotemporal convolution and refinement network\
(2021) Proceedings - IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems, 2021-May, art. no. 9401675, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85109018387&doi=10.1109%2fISCAS51556.2021.9401675&partnerID=40&md5=2487f473ed3c02dd9e8a76751e826ca2\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISCAS51556.2021.9401675\
AFFILIATIONS: The School of Computer Science and Engineering, Hunan University of Science and Technology, Xiangtan, 411201, China; \
The School of Information Science and Engineering, Hunan University, Changsha, 411004, China\
ABSTRACT: Deep learning-based video inpainting can fill the missing or undesired regions with spatial-temporal consistent contents without obvious visually distortion. Although the original purpose of deep inpainting is to repair flawed videos, it can also be adopted for malicious purposes, e.g., removal of specific objects. Therefore, automatically locating the inpainted regions is a challenging task in video forensics. This paper proposes a new forensic refinement framework to localize the deep inpainted regions by considering the spatial-temporal viewpoint. Firstly, we design a spatiotemporal convolution to suppress redundancy for highlighting deep inpainting traces. Then, a detection module is constructed with four concatenated ResNet blocks, and two upsampling layers to achieve a rough location map. Finally, a modified U-net based refinement module is developed for the pixel-wise localization map. Deep inpaiting video datasets created by the state-of-the-art deep inpainting method, have been evaluated, and extensive experimental results clearly demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed approach. \'a9 2021 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 101\
Hamdi, S.D., Radhi, A.M.\
57225010112;57210932396;\
Developing a Reliable System for Real-Life Emails Classification Using Machine Learning Approach\
(2021) Lecture Notes in Networks and Systems, 243, pp. 620-631. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85108904927&doi=10.1007%2f978-981-16-2094-2_72&partnerID=40&md5=c498ddbd78d680a18bd363c93c917a27\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-981-16-2094-2_72\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Information Engineering, Al-Nahrain University, Baghdad, Iraq\
ABSTRACT: Cyber World has become accessible, public and commonly used to distribute and exchange messages between malicious actors, terrorists, and illegally motivated persons. Electronic mail is one of the most frequently used transfers of information on internet media. E-mails are the most important digital proof that courts in various countries and communities use to condemn and that enables researchers to work continually to improve e-mail analysis using state-of-the-art technology to find digital evidence from e-mails. This work introduces a distinctive technology to analyze emails. It is based on consecutive phases, starting with data processing, extraction, compilation, then implementing the SWARM algorithm to adjust the output and to transfer these electronic mails for realistic and precise results by adjusting the support algorithm of vector machines. For email forensic analysis this system includes all the sentiment terms plus positives and negatives cases. It can deal with the machine learning algorithm (Sent WordNet 3.0). Enron Data set is used to test the proposed framework. In the best case, a high accuracy rate is 92%. \'a9 2021, The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyber forensic;  Email;  Enron;  Sent WordNet;  Swarm\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 102\
Kumar, M.\
35248326800;\
Solid state drive forensics analysis\'97Challenges and recommendations\
(2021) Concurrency and Computation: Practice and Experience, 33 (24), art. no. e6442, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85107293884&doi=10.1002%2fcpe.6442&partnerID=40&md5=0453e396eeee115fd80e4d94d0dc9f53\
\
DOI: 10.1002/cpe.6442\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Master of Computer Applications, M S Ramaiah Institute of Technology, Bangalore, India\
ABSTRACT: Solid state drive (SSD) is rapidly replacing hard disk drive (HDD) in almost all computing devices. With the exponential growth in SSD technologies, it is quite possible that very soon HDD will become obsolete. It is good news for the end-users, but may not be so pleasant for the digital forensics examiners. It has been a challenge for the cyber-crime investigator ever since the evolution of SSD technology. The intrinsic characteristics of SSD are not very supportive for forensic examiners. The TRIM function and background garbage process make it difficult to retrieve deleted artifacts from the SSD. The traditional disk write blocker cannot stop the background process. There is a lot of uncertainty involved in SSD data acquisition. Sometimes it is also difficult to prove the integrity of SSD in the court of law which makes the SSD's legal admissibility questionable. The objective of this article is to examine the uncertainty involved in SSD forensics with experimental analysis. This article discusses in detail the different components of SSD and its working principle followed by experimental forensics analysis, critical observations, guidelines, and recommendations. \'a9 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: digital forensics;  digital forensics imaging;  electronic evidence integrity;  solid state drive (SSD);  TRIM functionality\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 103\
Khan, A.A., Shaikh, A.A., Cheikhrouhou, O., Laghari, A.A., Rashid, M., Shafiq, M., Hamam, H.\
57223873126;57202837224;35112771500;57192411704;57191990629;57220508299;7004762599;\
IMG-forensics: Multimedia-enabled information hiding investigation using convolutional neural network\
(2021) IET Image Processing, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85106321905&doi=10.1049%2fipr2.12272&partnerID=40&md5=07a6edf84209703b0316eed8bd5ccb21\
\
DOI: 10.1049/ipr2.12272\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Computer Science, Sindh Madressatul Islam University, Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan; \
Faculty of Computing Science and Information Technology, Benazir Bhutto Shaheed University Lyari, Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan; \
Collage of CIT, Taif University, Taif, Saudi Arabia; \
Department of Computer Engineering, Faculty of Science and Technology, Vishwakarma University, Pune, India; \
Cyberspace Institute of Advanced Technology, Guangzhou University, Guangzhou, China; \
Faculty of Engineering, Universit\'e9 de Moncton, Moncton, NB, Canada\
ABSTRACT: Information hiding aims to embed a crucial amount of confidential data records into the multimedia, such as text, audio, static and dynamic image, and video. Image-based information hiding has been a significantly important topic for digital forensics. Here, active image deep steganographic approaches have come forward for hiding data. The least significant bit (LSB) steganography approach is proposed to conceal a secret message into the original image. First, the lightweight stream encryption cryptography encrypts secret information in the cover image to protect embedded information from source to destination. Whereas the encrypted embedded cover information into the carrier of stego-image with the help of the LSB and then transmit. In the proposed investigational scheme, a convolutional neural net is used. A model is trained to detect and extract patterns of image hidden features, encrypted stego-image optimization, and classify original and cover images of steganography. Through the experiment result on the forensic image database for mobile steganography of the Center for Statistics and Application in Forensic Evidence, the overall embedded and extracting that the proposed scheme can achieve information hiding as well as revealing with an accuracy rate of 95.1%. The experimental result shows the robustness of the model in terms of efficiency as compared to other state-of-the-art schemes. \'a9 2021 The Authors. IET Image Processing published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Institution of Engineering and Technology\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Article in Press\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 104\
AlOwaimer, B.H., Mishra, S.\
57223634516;55463276900;\
Analysis of web browser for digital forensics investigation\
(2021) International Journal of Computer Applications in Technology, 65 (2), pp. 160-172. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85105956035&doi=10.1504%2fIJCAT.2021.114987&partnerID=40&md5=07302ebec4131acfc74096fda5e40da2\
\
DOI: 10.1504/IJCAT.2021.114987\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Technology, Majmaah University, Majmaah, Riyadh, 11952, Saudi Arabia; \
Department of Computer Engineering, Majmaah University, Majmaah, Riyadh, 11952, Saudi Arabia\
ABSTRACT: In today's digitalised world, a lot of information is getting online; the size of online data is getting huge day by day, and thus here emerges the field of data science. An internal malicious user can exploit a browser, and the main hindrance comes when all the browsing data is deleted. A forensics investigation needs to extract all the pieces of evidence like history, cookies, URL, sessions, and saved passwords from the cloud space provided by the browser. The research method is mixed qualitative and quantitative. A scenario is created in a virtual environment where there is a victim machine whose browser is exploited. Two different platforms are used for the authentication and verification of pieces of evidence collected. The culprit is being caught based on matching web browsing activities from the victim machine and another machine in the same place as the victim machine. Copyright \'a9 2021 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence;  Digital forensic;  Forensic investigation;  Web browser forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 105\
Martyna, A., Zadora, G.\
55542589100;6603075450;\
CHAPTER 8: Hybrid Likelihood Ratio Models for Forensic Applications: A Novel Solution to Determine the Evidential Value of Physicochemical Data\
(2021) RSC Detection Science, 2021-January (20), pp. 198-231. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85105465878&doi=10.1039%2f9781839160912-00198&partnerID=40&md5=88f8875d6c89c401091637b0cd79bc33\
\
DOI: 10.1039/9781839160912-00198\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Silesia in Katowice, Faculty of Science and Technology, Institute of Chemistry, Forensic Chemistry Research Group, 9 Szkolna, Katowice, 40-006, Poland; \
Institute of Forensic Research in Krakow, 9 Westerplatte, Krakow, 31-033, Poland\
ABSTRACT: In an era of rapid advancement in analytical techniques the amount of data that needs to be properly processed increases. According to the European Network of Forensic Science Institutes, a proper interpretation of data for forensic applications should be embedded in a likelihood ratio (LR) framework. The method clearly reflects the role of the forensic expert in the process of evidence evaluation. The concept involves analysis of the evidence data in the context of two adversative hypotheses, e.g. the sample recovered from the suspect's clothing and the sample collected from the crime scene may have come from the same object (H1), or not (H2). The LR model evaluates the similarity between the samples, the frequency of observing their data and typical variability within and between such samples in the population to indicate which of the hypotheses is more likely. The chapter focuses on hybrid LR models, which were developed to bypass the infeasibility of training LR models for datasets with more variables than samples. They are constructed for a limited number of variables derived from chemometric techniques that effectively reduce data dimensionality, enhance the differences between samples in the training set and reduce the variance within them for improving the performance of LR models. \'a9 2021 The Royal Society of Chemistry.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 106\
He, P., Wang, H., Zhang, R., Li, Y.\
57075586900;35216738700;57194035100;57196300140;\
A Two-Stage Cascaded Detection Scheme for Double HEVC Compression Based on Temporal Inconsistency\
(2021) Security and Communication Networks, 2021, art. no. 5568351, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85105416499&doi=10.1155%2f2021%2f5568351&partnerID=40&md5=3edff5f4b4168d31add7d781d4623166\
\
DOI: 10.1155/2021/5568351\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Cyber Science and Engineering, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 610065, China; \
School of Information Science and Technology, Southwest Jiaotong University, Chengdu, 611756, China\
ABSTRACT: Nowadays, verifying the integrity of digital videos is significant especially for applications about multimedia communication. In video forensics, detection of double compression can be treated as the first step to analyze whether a suspicious video undergoes any tampering operations. In the last decade, numerous detection methods have been proposed to address this issue, but most existing methods design a universal detector which is hard to handle various recompression settings efficiently. In this work, we found that the statistics of different Coding Unit (CU) types have dissimilar properties when original videos are recompressed by the increased and decreased bit rates. It motivates us to propose a two-stage cascaded detection scheme for double HEVC compression based on temporal inconsistency to overcome limitations of existing methods. For a given video, CU information maps are extracted from each short-time video clip using our proposed value mapping strategy. In the first detection stage, a compact feature is extracted based on the distribution of different CU types and Kullback-Leibler divergence between temporally adjacent frames. This detection feature is fed into the Support Vector Machine classifier to identify abnormal frames with the increased bit rate. In the second stage, a shallow convolutional neural network equipped with dense connections is designed carefully to learn robust spatiotemporal representations, which can identify abnormal frames with the decreased bit rate whose forensic traces are less detectable. In experiments, the proposed method can achieve more promising detection accuracy compared with several state-of-the-art methods under various coding parameter settings, especially when the original video is recompressed with a low quality (e.g., more than 8%). \'a9 2021 Peisong He et al.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 107\
Apoorva, K.A., Sangeetha, S.\
57222072518;57201067555;\
Forensic Analysis of E-mail for Authorship Attribution: Research Perspective\
(2021) Lecture Notes in Networks and Systems, 169 LNNS, pp. 281-292. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85104836058&doi=10.1007%2f978-981-33-4073-2_27&partnerID=40&md5=84b8d0646b6339afde46f4d403190c5d\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-981-33-4073-2_27\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Applications, National Institute of Technology Tiruchirappalli, Tiruchirappalli, Tamil Nadu, India\
ABSTRACT: E-mail has emerged as an important means of communication. Lots of criminal activities have been reported using e-mail as a primary source for the scam. Extracting the information from the e-mail text has become more important for forensic investigation and evidence collection. Identifying the actual author of an e-mail has become necessary and is also a significant area of research in digital forensics as each author has a unique style of writing. Yet, it is one of the most demanding and tedious tasks due to the characteristics of the e-mail dataset. Recently, lots of cybercrimes, hacking, and many forms of organized crimes are penetrating the network which breaches the IT security. With various sources of evidential data that is required for analysis, one technique used for analysis will be more beneficial than the other depending on the time and constraints considered. There exist several machine learning algorithms that ease the work of efficient analysis of author identification from the evidence gathered. This paper emphasis such varied algorithms and justifies the efficient use of the support vector machine algorithm for forensic analysis of data and also provides the related works and techniques for author attribution. \'a9 2021, The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Author attribution;  Evidences;  Forensic investigation;  Forensics analysis;  Machine learning algorithms;  Support vector machines\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 108\
Lu, W., Zhang, Q., Luo, S., Zhou, Y., Huang, J., Shi, Y.\
26664168800;57205470648;57207831569;24175343600;56057258200;7404964736;\
Robust Estimation of Upscaling Factor on Double JPEG Compressed Images\
(2021) IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85104623136&doi=10.1109%2fTCYB.2021.3069999&partnerID=40&md5=b1bb837e9bf6f1d9f226ca6891027c9e\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TCYB.2021.3069999\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science and Engineering, Guangdong Province Key Laboratory of Information Security Technology, Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Machine Intelligence and Advanced Computing, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510006, China (e-mail: luwei3@mail.sysu.edu.cn); \
School of Computer Science and Engineering, Guangdong Province Key Laboratory of Information Security Technology, Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Machine Intelligence and Advanced Computing, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510006, China.; \
Department of Computer and Information Science, University of Macau, Macau, China.; \
Guangdong Key Laboratory of Intelligent Information Processing, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 518060, China, also with the Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Media Security, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 518060, China, and also with the Shenzhen Institute of Artificial Intelligence and Robotics for Society, Shenzhen 518055, China.; \
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark, NJ 07102 USA.\
ABSTRACT: As one of the most important topics in image forensics, resampling detection has developed rapidly in recent years. However, the robustness to JPEG compression is still challenging for most classical spectrum-based methods, since JPEG compression severely degrades the image contents and introduces block artifacts in the boundary of the compression grid. In this article, we propose a method to estimate the upscaling factors on double JPEG compressed images in the presence of image upscaling between the two compressions. We first analyze the spectrum of scaled images and give an overall formulation of how the scaling factors along with the parameters of JPEG compression and image contents influence the appearance of tampering artifacts. The expected positions of five kinds of characteristic peaks are analytically derived. Then, we analyze the features of double JPEG compressed images in the block discrete cosine transform (BDCT) domain and present an inverse scaling strategy for the upscaling factor estimation with a detailed proof. Finally, a fusion method is proposed that through frequency-domain analysis, a candidate set of upscaling factors is given, and through analysis in the BDCT domain, the optimal estimation from all candidates is determined. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms other state-of-the-art methods. IEEE\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Detectors;  Estimation;  Forensics;  Frequency-domain analysis;  Image coding;  Image forensics;  image resampling detection;  JPEG block artifacts;  Robustness;  scaling factor estimation.;  Transform coding\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Article in Press\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 109\
Bhardwaj, S., Dave, M.\
57209093689;7006803538;\
SQL Injection Attack Detection, Evidence Collection, and Notifying System Using Standard Intrusion Detection System in Network Forensics\
(2021) Lecture Notes on Data Engineering and Communications Technologies, 62, pp. 681-692. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85103928401&doi=10.1007%2f978-981-33-4968-1_53&partnerID=40&md5=c86898579167619bed4a4ef961009598\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-981-33-4968-1_53\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra, 136119, India\
ABSTRACT: Structured query language (SQL) injection is an attack method that explores the functional and storage vulnerabilities of web applications that have data stored in a database. The attacker is capable of affecting the security by intentionally deciding the content that will be forwarded to the database for information retrieval. The attacker gets the benefit by exploiting the syntax and storage vulnerabilities that are responsible for weak points generated in the DBMS security system. This study makes use of the Snort intrusion detection system log files that contain information affiliated to attackers and can provide timed attack notifications via digital notification systems, like emails. In this research, a web server-based network system is initialized using the Snort intrusion detection system (IDS) to detect various methods of SQL injection attacks possible. The method used is based on NIST standards which are based on major risk assessment phases. This is a five phase-based research that performs exploit site testing, simulating attack circumstances, configuring IDS, collecting data and final phase of performing analysis. This study contributes to a web server-based IDS snort system that is capable of detecting a significant number of SQL injection attacks and real-time response notifying system via digital notifications. \'a9 2021, The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyber attacks;  Cyber security;  Intrusion detection;  Network forensics;  Privacy;  SQL injection attack\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 110\
Li, Q., Chen, S., Tan, S., Li, B., Huang, J.\
57216469186;57191058555;25960429800;57102112000;56057258200;\
One-Class Double Compression Detection of Advanced Videos Based on Simple Gaussian Distribution Model\
(2021) IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85103763063&doi=10.1109%2fTCSVT.2021.3069254&partnerID=40&md5=1f95fa71ad83db05a4c763db267f2e3f\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TCSVT.2021.3069254\
AFFILIATIONS: Guangdong Key Laboratory of Intelligent Information Processing, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 518060, China and Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Media Security, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 518060, China and Guangdong Laboratory of Artificial Intelligence and Digital Economy (SZ), Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 518060, China, and Shenzhen Institute of Artificial Intelligence and Robotics for Society, Shenzhen 518060, China.; \
College of Computer Science and Technology, Sun Yat-sen University, and he is now with Google.; \
Guangdong Key Laboratory of Intelligent Information Processing, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 518060, China and Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Media Security, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 518060, China and Guangdong Laboratory of Artificial Intelligence and Digital Economy (SZ), Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 518060, China, and Shenzhen Institute of Artificial Intelligence and Robotics for Society, Shenzhen 518060, China. (e-mail: tansq@szu.edu.cn)\
ABSTRACT: Passive video forensics has become an active topic in recent years. Generally, a pristine video obtained from surveillance cameras or other video recording devices is single compressed. At the same time, double lossy compression will certainly be introduced in tampered videos since it needs to go through recompression to perform tampering on a commonly used compressed video. In the video&#x2019;s double compression, some traces are left due to the intrinsic effects of recompression. Traditional supervised learning is inefficient because it requires two classes (the pristine and the manipulated) that occur in the video to be exhaustively assigned labels. Actually, compared with pristine videos, manipulated videos with labels are more difficult to obtain. To address this problem, in this paper, one-class classification, which is often used for anomaly detection and only needs the target class, is introduced. We first treat all decompressed video frames as still images and extract subtractive pixel adjacency matrix (SPAM) steganalysis features to detect traces left in the double compression process. Then we adopt a Gaussian density-based one-class classifier since SPAM features extracted from pristine video frames approximately subject to the Gaussian distribution. Furthermore, we improve the robustness of the classifier by using ensemble strategy. Experimental results indicate that our proposed method exceeds other more complex one-class classification methods, and outperforms fully-supervised learning methods only by feeding features from single compressed video frames to our one-class classifier. IEEE\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cameras;  Discrete cosine transforms;  Double Compression Detection;  Ensemble Strategy;  Feature extraction;  Image coding;  One-Class Classification;  SPAM;  Surveillance;  Training;  Video Forensics;  Videos\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Article in Press\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 111\
Iuliani, M., Fontani, M., Piva, A.\
56685528500;56490515900;7005293392;\
A Leak in PRNU Based Source Identification - Questioning Fingerprint Uniqueness\
(2021) IEEE Access, 9, art. no. 9393356, pp. 52455-52463. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85103756410&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2021.3070478&partnerID=40&md5=ab5fa81de2e1c1ef71f33e8d06be8486\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3070478\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Engineering, University of Florence, Florence, 50139, Italy; \
Amped Software, Trieste, 59100, Italy; \
Amped Software, Trieste, 34149, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Photo Response Non-Uniformity (PRNU) is considered the most effective trace for the image source attribution task. Its uniqueness ensures that the sensor pattern noises extracted from differentcameras are strongly uncorrelated, even when they belong to the same camera model. However, with the advent of computational photography, most recent devices heavily process the acquired pixels, possibly introducing non-unique artifacts that may reduce PRNU noise's distinctiveness, especially when several exemplars of the same device model are involved in the analysis. Considering that PRNU isan image forensic technology that finds actual and wide use by law enforcement agencies worldwide, it is essential to keep validating such technology on recent devices as they appear. In this paper,we perform an extensive testing campaign on over 33.000 Flickr images belonging to 45 smartphone and 25 DSLR camera models released recently to determine how widespread the issue is and which is theplausible cause. Experiments highlight that most brands, like Samsung, Huawei, Canon, Nikon, Fujifilm, Sigma, and Leica, are strongly affected by this issue. We show that the primary cause of high false alarm rates cannot be directly related to specific camera models, firmware, nor image contents. It is evident that the effectiveness of PRNU based source identification on the most recent devices must be reconsidered in light of these results. Therefore, this paper is intended as a call to action for the scientific community rather than a complete treatment of the subject. Moreover, we believe publishing these data is important to raise awareness about a possible issue with PRNU reliability in the law enforcement world. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: image classification;  image forensics;  Image processing;  source identification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 112\
Spalazzi, L., Paolanti, M., Frontoni, E.\
55899283900;57188734162;9737451300;\
An offline parallel architecture for forensic multimedia classification\
(2021) Multimedia Tools and Applications, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85103371708&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-021-10819-x&partnerID=40&md5=7a445b955c02853f1651f8b3babbddfb\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-021-10819-x\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Engineering (DII), Universit\'e0 Politecnica delle Marche, Via Brecce Bianche, Ancona, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Nowadays, the volume of the multimedia heterogeneous evidence presented for digital forensic analysis has significantly increased, thus requiring the application of big data technologies, cloud-based forensics services, as well as Machine Learning (ML) techniques. In digital forensics domain, ML algorithms have been applied for cybercrime investigation such as child abuse investigations, malware classification, and image forensics. This paper addresses this issues and deals with forensic analysis of digital images and videos. In particular, this work aims at proposing a multimedia classification tool with a parallel software architecture for a fast inspection, which is easy to use (to be used by officers during a search), requires limited hardware resources and it is built on an open-source software to limit its costs. Moreover, this tool must be able to quickly inspect multiple devices at a time. When positives are found in a device, such device will be seized for a deeper analysis later in the lab. It will not be seized otherwise, reducing the inconvenience for the suspect as well as the time required for the next analysis phase. As a case study, we focus on the identification of child pornography images. Experimental results show that the proposed architecture is capable of guaranteeing a high recall, a fast process and high performances in real scenarios. \'a9 2021, The Author(s).\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensic;  Machine learning;  Parallel architecture\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Article in Press\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 113\
Hadwiger, B., Riess, C.\
57209889422;23393831200;\
The Forchheim Image Database for Camera Identification in the Wild\
(2021) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 12666 LNCS, pp. 500-515. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85103295868&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-68780-9_40&partnerID=40&md5=482fa61f7be6dac10ee9e8204b48c899\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-68780-9_40\
AFFILIATIONS: Multimedia Security Group, IT-Security Infrastructures Lab, Friedrich-Alexander-Universit\'e4t Erlangen-N\'fcrnberg, Erlangen, Germany\
ABSTRACT: Image provenance can represent crucial knowledge in criminal investigation and journalistic fact checking. In the last two decades, numerous algorithms have been proposed for obtaining information on the source camera and distribution history of an image. For a fair ranking of these techniques, it is important to rigorously assess their performance on practically relevant test cases. To this end, a number of datasets have been proposed. However, we argue that there is a gap in existing databases: to our knowledge, there is currently no dataset that simultaneously satisfies two goals, namely a) to cleanly separate scene content and forensic traces, and b) to support realistic post-processing like social media recompression. In this work, we propose the Forchheim Image Database (FODB) to close this gap. It consists of more than 23,000 images of 143 scenes by 27 smartphone cameras, and it allows to cleanly separate image content from forensic artifacts. Each image is provided in 6 different qualities: the original camera-native version, and five copies from social networks. We demonstrate the usefulness of FODB in an evaluation of methods for camera identification. We report three findings. First, the recently proposed general-purpose EfficientNet remarkably outperforms several dedicated forensic CNNs both on clean and compressed images. Second, classifiers obtain a performance boost even on unknown post-processing after augmentation by artificial degradations. Third, FODB\'92s clean separation of scene content and forensic traces imposes important, rigorous boundary conditions for algorithm benchmarking. \'a9 2021, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Benchmark dataset;  Camera identification;  Post-processing\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 114\
Osakabe, T., Tanaka, M., Kinoshita, Y., Kiya, H.\
57221534642;57221773880;57191907376;7006251528;\
CycleGAN without checkerboard artifacts for counter-forensics of fake-image detection\
(2021) Proceedings of SPIE - The International Society for Optical Engineering, 11766, art. no. 1176609, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85103267297&doi=10.1117%2f12.2590977&partnerID=40&md5=55f33911a518aad15e034662a785330c\
\
DOI: 10.1117/12.2590977\
AFFILIATIONS: Tokyo Metropolitan University, Tokyo, Japan\
ABSTRACT: In this paper, we propose a novel CycleGAN without checkerboard artifacts for counter-forensics of fake-image detection. Recent rapid advances in image manipulation tools and deep image synthesis techniques, such as Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) have easily generated fake images, so detecting manipulated images has become an urgent issue. Most state-of-the-art forgery detection methods assume that images include checkerboard artifacts which are generated by using DNNs. Accordingly, we propose a novel CycleGAN without any checkerboard artifacts for counter-forensics of fake-mage detection methods for the first time, as an example of GANs without checkerboard artifacts. \'a9 COPYRIGHT SPIE. Downloading of the abstract is permitted for personal use only.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 115\
Xie, H., Ni, J., Shi, Y.\
57218835571;13106118300;7404964736;\
Dual-Domain Generative Adversarial Network for Digital Image Operation Anti-forensics\
(2021) IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85103250975&doi=10.1109%2fTCSVT.2021.3068294&partnerID=40&md5=47fa867f51e517d2feb76851f029ab99\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TCSVT.2021.3068294\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electronics and Information Engineering, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.; \
School of Computer Science and Engineering, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China, and Cyberspace Security Research Center, Peng Cheng Laboratory, Shenzhen 518055, China. (e-mail: issjqni@mail.sysu.edu.cn); \
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark, NJ 07102 USA.\
ABSTRACT: In this letter, we propose a general digital image operation anti-forensic framework based on generative adversarial nets (GANs), called dual-domain generative adversarial network (DDGAN). To tackle the issue of image operation detection, the proposed framework incorporates both operation specific forensic features and machine-learned knowledge to ensure that the generated images exhibit better undetectability performance against various detectors. The DDGAN consists of a generator and two discriminators working on different domains, i.e., the operation-specific feature domain which helps to conceal the artifacts from the perspective of forensic analysis for the target task, and the spatial domain which facilitates to take advantage of machine-learned features from the scratch as a supplementary. Through the experiments on median filtering and JPEG compression anti-forensics, we show the superior performance of the proposed DDGAN compared with state-of-the-art anti-forensic methods in terms of undetectability and visual quality. IEEE\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: anti-forensics;  Detectors;  Digital image forensics;  Feature extraction;  Forensics;  generative adversarial nets;  Generators;  Image coding;  JPEG compression;  median filtering;  Training;  Transform coding\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Article in Press\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 116\
Pol\uc0\u269 \'e1k, R., Kasl, F.\
24167426400;57199153138;\
Proportionate Forensics of Disinformation and Manipulation\
(2021) Political Campaigning and Communication, pp. 167-193. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85103107771&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-58624-9_6&partnerID=40&md5=8b5bedc247eb280f2c5e6565c9df63e4\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-58624-9_6\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Law and Technology, Faculty of Law, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic\
ABSTRACT: The chapter continues the discussion on the technological approaches to detecting disinformation and manipulation, but from a legal perspective. It deals with the legal aspects of detecting online disinformation and propaganda using autonomous algorithmic tools, the requirements for the forensic analysis of digital evidence, and a relevant legal framework for collecting and evaluating evidence available in order to tackle these issues. The determination of the propagandistic or disinformation quality of content constitutes information needed in threat evaluation. For a proper understanding of the possibilities and limits of proving such a quality in content, the first part of the chapter provides theoretical insight into the definition of information and evidence according to law. The second part of the chapter then elaborates on the requirements and rules of evidence in criminal law, with a particular focus on digital evidence and its specifics. \'a9 2021, The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Automated analytical tools;  Digital forensics;  Electronic evidence;  European investigation order;  European production and preservation orders\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 117\
Bouchaud, F., Vantroys, T., Grimaud, G.\
57204352691;8664682600;14007975700;\
Evidence Gathering in IoT Criminal Investigation\
(2021) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, LNICST, 351, pp. 44-61. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85102655250&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-68734-2_3&partnerID=40&md5=5d57fa538dd25d60f6665f145a375152\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-68734-2_3\
AFFILIATIONS: IRCGN - Forensic Science Laboratory Gendarmerie Nationale, Cergy, France; \
Univ. Lille, CNRS, Centrale Lille, UMR 9189 - CRIStAL, Lille, 59000, France\
ABSTRACT: The Internet of Things (IoT) is a new paradigm. It enables communication between physical \'93things\'94 through a common and distributed architecture. It is based on objects deeply rooted in the intimate lives of users. The devices are constantly scanning and interacting with this physical world. They bear witness to past events and are therefore a rich source of information for criminal investigations. The collection of evidence from the connected infrastructure is a decisive phase of the success of the police investigation. It is about removing objects from their initial environment and placing them in a controlled and secured area. This action allows the evidence to be preserved for later examination. It is crucial, but nevertheless difficult. It can alter or destroy valuable data during manipulation. Moreover, the difficulty lies in the heterogeneous nature of the devices and their strong dependence on the environment. This paper focuses on the collection of IoT devices at the local level, linked to an investigative strategy. It presents several tools and methods to retrieve the objects and proposes to evaluate its relevance in a use case. \'a9 2021, ICST Institute for Computer Sciences, Social Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Collection and sealing;  Internet of Things;  IoT Investigations\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 118\
Busch, M., Nicolai, F., Fleischer, F., R\'fcckert, C., Safferling, C., Freiling, F.\
57195945541;57222404475;57218826057;57222404010;15835459900;13007598800;\
Make Remote Forensic Investigations Forensic Again: Increasing the Evidential Value of Remote Forensic Investigations\
(2021) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, LNICST, 351, pp. 23-43. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85102642377&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-68734-2_2&partnerID=40&md5=a8432a1b8564fd27bfff033ccfb45b10\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-68734-2_2\
AFFILIATIONS: Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany\
ABSTRACT: Due to the increasing use of encrypted communication and anonymous services, many countries introduced new regulations that allow law enforcement to perform remote forensic investigations. During such investigations, law enforcement agencies secretly obtain remote access to a suspect\'92s computer to search for and collect evidence, including full copies of the (unencrypted) communication data. In this paper, we argue that the evidential value of the acquired evidence can be substantially increased by two technical methods: (1) employing integrity verification techniques offered by secure hardware, and (2) exfiltrating the decryption key of encrypted communication only in order to decrypt communication obtained by lawful interception. To prove the practicality of both methods, we design and implement TEE-BI, a solution for Trusted Execution Environment-based introspection. We deploy TEE-BI on an Android-based hardware platform featuring an ARM TrustZone and demonstrate the stealthy extraction of Secure Sockets Layer encryption keys from an Android userland application. We evaluate the effectiveness, performance, and compatibility of our prototype and argue that it provides a much higher level of evidential value than (the known) existing remote forensic software systems. \'a9 2021, ICST Institute for Computer Sciences, Social Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android;  ARM TrustZone;  Evidential value;  Principle of proportionality;  Remote forensic investigation;  Translation table introspection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 119\
11th EAI International Conference on Digital Forensics and Cyber Crime, ICDF2C 2020\
(2021) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, LNICST, 351, 250 p. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85102626445&partnerID=40&md5=2ad5dec4dba785e3087b01563fce6305\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 15 papers. The special focus in this conference is on Digital Forensics and Cyber Crime. The topics include: A Digital Forensic Approach for Optimizing the Investigation of Hit-and-Run Accidents; an Intelligence Criminal Tracker for Industrial Espionage: Applying Digital Data Acquired Onsite to Target Criminals; retracing the Flow of the Stream: Investigating Kodi Streaming Services; cybersecurity Methodology for\'a0Specialized Behavior Analysis; neural Representation Learning Based Binary Code Authorship Attribution; make Remote Forensic Investigations Forensic Again: Increasing the Evidential Value of Remote Forensic Investigations; evidence Gathering in IoT Criminal Investigation; effective Medical Image Copy-Move Forgery Localization Based on Texture Descriptor; a Partial Approach to Intrusion Detection; efficient Fingerprint Matching for Forensic Event Reconstruction; Modelling GOP Structure Effects on ENF-Based Video Forensics; android Dumpsys Analysis to Indicate Driver Distraction; adapting to Local Conditions: Similarities and Differences in Anonymous Online Market Between Chinese and English Speaking Communities.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 120\
Gu, Y., Zhao, X., Gong, C., Yi, X.\
57222388325;55623697900;57208225084;37007196200;\
Deepfake Video Detection Using Audio-Visual Consistency\
(2021) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 12617 LNCS, pp. 168-180. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85102584980&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-69449-4_13&partnerID=40&md5=d87fd74385658d03ab7b3d247b1ac47a\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-69449-4_13\
AFFILIATIONS: State Key Laboratory of Information Security, Institute of Information Engineering, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100093, China; \
School of Cyber Security, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China\
ABSTRACT: Benefit from significant advances in deep learning, widespread Deepfake videos with the convincing manipulations, have posted a serious of threats to public security, thus the identification of fake videos has become increasingly active in current researches. However, most present Deepfake detection methods concentrate on exposing facial defects through direct facial feature analysis while merely considering the synergies with authentic behavior information outside the facial regions. Meanwhile, schemes based on meticulous-designed neural networks are rarely efficient to provide subjective interpretations of the final identification evidences. Therefore, to further enrich the diversity of detection method and increase the interpretability of detection evidences, this paper proposes a self-referential method to exploit audio-visual consistency by introducing synchronous audio recordings as reference. In preprocess phase, we propose an audio-visual matching strategy based on phonemes to segment videos, and control experiments have proved that strategy outperforms common equal-length partition. To deal with such video segments, an audio-visual coupling model (AVCM) is employed for audio-visual feature representations, then similarity metrics are measured for mouth frames and related speech segments. Actually, synchronized pairs mean the high scores of similarity and asynchronous pairs opposite. The evaluations on DeepfakeVidTIMIT indicate that our method has achieved competitive results compared with current main methods, especially in high quality datasets. \'a9 2021, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Audio-visual consistency;  Audio-visual matching;  Convolutional neural networks;  Deepfake detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 121\
Li, S., Huo, H.\
57248288100;56527849900;\
Frame deletion detection based on optical flow orientation variation\
(2021) IEEE Access, 9, pp. 37196-37209. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85102250684&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2021.3061586&partnerID=40&md5=220c752af5e57e0572c90366a4d34a60\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3061586\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Technology and Cyber Security, People's Public Security University of China, Beijing, 100038, China\
ABSTRACT: Frame deletion detection is an arrestive field for video forensics in recent years. This paper presents a frame deletion detection algorithm based on optical flow orientation variation. Optical flow field has been proved to be effective for the detection of the frame deletion operation. However, current optical-flow based methods have relatively poor detection performance for real-world videos. Our research aims to develop a new forensic method to detect frame deletion for real-world videos. The proposed algorithm firstly develops an analytical model for flow orientation variation between adjacent optical flow fields, and exhibits a novel forensic clue for frame deletion detection, under an ideal but reasonable assumption. Accordingly, an effective descriptor, namely pseudo flow orientation variation (PFOV), is created to approximate the flow orientation variation, as a discriminative description feature to capture the frame deletion trace. The Frobenius norm and a smooth function are also introduced to quantify each descriptor to form an one-dimensional time series, and further statistics technique is adopted to detect the anomalous points in the time series caused by frame deletion. In addition, to improve the descriptor performance, the Robust Principal Component Analysis (RPCA) is applied to extract moving objects from video sequences and compute the proposed descriptor on them. The tests are made on 324 real-world videos, and experiment results demonstrate that the true positive rate can reach 90.12%, meanwhile the false alarm rate is 7.71%, which indicates the superiority of the proposed method in the forensic algorithms for real-world video. \'a9 2020 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Effective forensic clue;  Flow orientation variation model;  Frame deletion detection;  PFOV descriptor;  Robust principal component analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 122\
Uddin, M.Y., Ahmad, S., Afzal, M.M.\
56701846200;57194429140;57203948191;\
Disposable Virtual Machines and Challenges to Digital Forensics Investigation\
(2021) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 12 (2), pp. 792-796. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85102081431&doi=10.14569%2fIJACSA.2021.0120299&partnerID=40&md5=a4146c8284d6c60c940b0b6d0be4db89\
\
DOI: 10.14569/IJACSA.2021.0120299\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Glocal University, Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh, India; \
Department of Computer Science, College of Computer Engineering and Sciences, Prince Sattam Bin Abdulaziz University, Al-Kharj, 11942, Saudi Arabia\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics field faces new challenges with emerging technologies. Virtualization is one of the significant challenges in the field of digital forensics. Virtual Machines (VM) have many advantages either it be an optimum utilization of hardware resources or cost saving for organizations. Traditional forensics\'92 tools are not competent enough to analyze the virtual machines as they only support for physical machines, to overcome this challenge Virtual Machine Introspection technologies were developed to perform forensic investigation of virtual machines. Until now, we were dealing with persistent virtual machines; these are created once and used many times. We have extreme version of virtual machine and that is disposable virtual machine. However, the disposable virtual machine once created and are used one time, it vanish from the system without leaving behind any significant traces or artifacts for digital investigator. The purpose of this paper is to discuss various disposable virtualization technologies available and challenges posed by them on the digital forensics investigation process and provided some future directions to overcome these challenges. \'a9 2021. All Rights Reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  digital investigation;  disposable virtual machines;  light weight virtual machine;  Microsoft sandbox;  QEMU;  qubes\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 123\
Kim, D., Ahn, W., Lee, H.-K.\
57200511262;57203792707;7501475723;\
End-to-end anti-forensics network of single and double JPEG detection\
(2021) IEEE Access, 9, art. no. 9323057, pp. 13390-13402. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85099733864&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2021.3051678&partnerID=40&md5=ed536af9c096b20085f19abc6873bef5\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3051678\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computing, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST), Daejeon, 34141, South Korea; \
Digital Innotech Company, Daejeon, 34184, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: JPEG compression is one of the major image compression methods and is widely used on the Internet. In addition, identifying traces of JPEG compression and double JPEG compression (DJPEG) is crucial in the image forensics field. Therefore, JPEG compression detection and DJPEG compression detection are two of the popular image authentication methods. Many feature-based JPEG detection methods have been proposed for that purpose, and there have been outstanding improvements in DJPEG detection with the development of deep learning. A number of anti-forensics of JPEG detection that counter feature-based detectors have been proposed but only a few techniques that counter DJPEG have been researched. This paper explores whether JPEG reconstruction methods, including restoration and anti-forensics of JPEG detection, can deceive JPEG and DJPEG detectors. We demonstrate that existing anti-forensics of JPEG detection can deceive both JPEG and DJPEG detectors well but perform poorly in non-aligned cases and degrade the image quality. We propose a convolutional neural network (CNN) based anti-forensics method to improve the performance of anti-forensics so that they can proficiently deceive JPEG and DJPEG detectors with higher image quality. Moreover, we explore the generalization algorithm to handle the real scenario. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  CNN;  DJPEG detection;  image forensics;  JPEG detection;  JPEG restoration\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 124\
Choi, H., Lee, S., Jeong, D.\
57221660762;36063408400;56585345100;\
Forensic Recovery of SQL Server Database: Practical Approach\
(2021) IEEE Access, 9, art. no. 9328241, pp. 14564-14575. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85099724291&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2021.3052505&partnerID=40&md5=578e66004eabafbe172b371fe6eafcff\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3052505\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Cyber Security and Privacy (ICSP), Korea University, Seoul, 02841, South Korea; \
College of Police and Criminal Justice, Dongguk University, Seoul, 04620, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Database forensics is becoming more important for investigators with the increased use of the information system. Although various database forensic methods such as log analysis and investigation model development have been studied, among the database forensic methods, recovering deleted data is a key technique in database investigation for DB tampering and anti-forensics. Previous studies mainly focused on transaction or journal log to recover deleted data, but if logs are set to be deleted periodically or logs containing critical evidence are overwritten by new logs, the log-based recovery method can not be used practically. For this reason, an engine-based recovery method that analyzes data file at a raw level has been also introduced. There is research to recover small-sized databases such as SQLite and EDB, but there is no prior work describing the structure of data file and technology to recover deleted data of large databases used by enterprises or large organizations. In this context, we investigate Microsoft SQL Server (MSSQL), which is one of the most used large databases. Our method focuses on a storage engine of MSSQL. Through analyzing the storage engine, we identify the internal structure of MSSQL data files and the storage mechanism. Based on these findings, a method to recover tables and records is presented by empirical examination. It is compatible with various versions of MSSQL because it accesses data at the raw level. Our proposed method is verified by a comparative experiment with forensic tools implemented to recover deleted MSSQL data. The experimental results show that our method recovers all deleted records from the unallocated area. It recovers all data types including multimedia data, called Large Objects (LOB) in the database field. To contribute digital forensic community, we also provide the source code of the implementation; it facilitates the knowledge sharing of database forensics. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Database;  forensics;  MSSQL;  servers;  SQL server\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 125 **SELECTED** SID: 6 **UNAVAILABLE**\
Liu, X.-H., Ding, L.-P., Zheng, T., Wu, J.-Z., Li, Y.-F.\
57206740177;50660901800;57212559715;36607190700;57210930376;\
Analysis of Cyber Attack Traceback Techniques from the Perspective of Network Forensics [
\f2 \'c3\'e6\'cf\'f2\'cd\'f8\'c2\'e7\'c8\'a1\'d6\'a4\'b5\'c4\'cd\'f8\'c2\'e7\'b9\'a5\'bb\'f7\'d7\'b7\'d7\'d9\'cb\'dd\'d4\'b4\'bc\'bc\'ca\'f5\'b7\'d6\'ce\'f6
\f0 ]\
(2021) Ruan Jian Xue Bao/Journal of Software, 32 (1), pp. 194-217. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85099103803&doi=10.13328%2fj.cnki.jos.006105&partnerID=40&md5=7f0187af99352f7735ea04621cf7d103\
\
DOI: 10.13328/j.cnki.jos.006105\
AFFILIATIONS: Laboratory of Parallel Software and Computational Science, Institute of Software, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100190, China; \
School of Computer Science and Technology, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China; \
Digital Forensics Laboratory, Institute of Software Application Technology, Guangzhou & Chinese Academy of Sciences (GZIS), Guangzhou, 511458, China; \
Guangdong Chinese Academy of Sciences & Realdata Science and Technology Co. Ltd., Guangzhou, 511458, China; \
China Unicom VSENS Communications Co. Ltd., Beijing, 100005, China; \
Intelligent Software Research Center, Institute of Software, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100190, China\
ABSTRACT: Locating the source of cyber attack and then collecting digital evidence is one of the tasks of network forensics. Cyber attack traceback techniques are used to locate the source of cyber attack. However, current research on cyber attack traceback is mainly conducted from a defensive perspective, targeting at blocking cyber attack as soon as possible via locating the cyber attack source, and rarely considers digital evidence acquirement. As a result, the large amount of valuable digital evidence generated during the process of cyber attack traceback cannot be used in prosecutions, and their value in network forensics cannot be fully exploited. Therefore, a set of forensics capability metrics is proposed to assess the forensics capability of cyber attack traceback techniques. The latest cyber attack traceback techniques, including cyber attack traceback based on software defined network, are summarized and analyzed. Their forensics capability is analyzed and some suggestions are provided for improvement. At last, a specific forensics process model for cyber attack traceback is proposed. The work of this paper provides reference for research on cyber attack traceback technology targeting at network forensics. \'a9 Copyright 2021, Institute of Software, the Chinese Academy of Sciences. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyber attack traceback;  Forensics process model;  IP traceback;  Network forensics;  The admissibility of digital evidence;  The probative force of digital evidence\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 126\
Mistry, N., Christian, A., Bhavsar, B.\
57189330417;57221111265;57221101405;\
Volatile Memory Disk Forensics: Investigate the Criminal Activity of\'a0RAMDisk\
(2021) Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, 1270, pp. 19-28. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85098218670&doi=10.1007%2f978-981-15-8289-9_3&partnerID=40&md5=c62c6a0e82f3b4dc8792e3d83755cd3e\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-981-15-8289-9_3\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Forensic Science, Gujarat Forensic Sciences University, Sector 9, Gandhinagar, Gujarat  382007, India\
ABSTRACT: In this ever-expanding cyber space, computer is a very valuable asset, but if used with malicious intentions it can create an environment of chaos. Computer forensics which is a part of digital forensics aims at collecting, analyzing, and documenting digital evidences such that they are admissible in court of law. But integrity of digital evidences comes under scrutiny due to anti-forensics tools and techniques that are exercised by cybercriminals to evade detection. RAMDisk is one of such technique used by cybercriminals to avoid detection and perform clean up after the crime that has been committed. Cybercriminals use this technique to store sensitive information and data in RAMDisk and discard it once the purpose has been served. This paper discusses the working of three popular RAMDisk softwares namely AMD Radeon RAMDisk, ImDisk Toolkit. and Miray RAM Drive. We have also identified proprietary drivers and unique signatures for each software and what approach can be adopted by a forensics investigator to investigate them. \'a9 2021, The Editor(s) (if applicable) and The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Counter-forensics;  Cybercrime;  RAM;  RAMDisk;  Random access memory;  Volatile memory\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 127 **SELECTED** SID: 5 **UNAVAILABLE**\
Atkinson, S., Carr, G., Shaw, C., Zargari, S.\
57220740879;57220752529;57220747888;55515158700;\
Drone Forensics: The Impact and Challenges\
(2021) Advanced Sciences and Technologies for Security Applications, pp. 65-124. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85097533093&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-60425-7_4&partnerID=40&md5=2a66d7bcfaea860c3883db1547e2df28\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-60425-7_4\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Science, Technology and Arts, Sheffield Hallam University, Sheffield, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) have surged in popularity over the last few years. With this, crime involving drones has also dramatically increased. Therefore, there is a dire need of successful Drone programmes that significantly would lower the amount of crime being committed involving Drone devices. Drone forensics is a concept that is less well known or documented. Research has shown that there have been Drone Forensic programmes to support the forensics investigations, however, many have failed for a few reasons such as the lack of understanding of the technology or other limited resources. It is also known within the Digital Forensics community that Anti-Forensics techniques are constant threats and hinder investigations, resulting in less convictions. This study aims to ascertain exactly what data can be extracted from UAV devices (Drones), the usefulness of this data, and whether consumers are able to obfuscate the data in efforts to evade detection (i.e. Anti-forensics techniques). A number of primary and secondary datasets have been utilised in this research. Primary data includes carrying out a flight using a UAV device and consequently analysing the resulting data and an interview with a qualified Digital Forensic Analyst. Secondary data was gained from VTO Labs, recommended by NIST which was able to be interrogated in order to deliver interesting results. This study found that Drones have the ability to hold a wealth of evidence that could potentially be very useful to assist forensics investigations. This included the flight path of the Drone, date and time of flight, altitude, home-point and alerts to inform whether the Drone was near restricted airspace such as airports (No Fly Zones). Moreover, it was found that it is possible for the manufacturers to build in Anti-Forensics software into their devices, but it would not be possible for a consumer to utilise such techniques. \'a9 2021, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Digital forensics;  Drone forensics;  Drones;  Mobile forensics;  UAV\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 128\
Bakas, J., Naskar, R., Bakshi, S.\
57203821101;53866980700;37048401000;\
Detection and localization of inter-frame forgeries in videos based on macroblock variation and motion vector analysis\
(2021) Computers and Electrical Engineering, 89, art. no. 106929, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85097349898&doi=10.1016%2fj.compeleceng.2020.106929&partnerID=40&md5=1b010eb617956db5e54b71bae26f3173\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.compeleceng.2020.106929\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, National Institute of Technology Rourkela769008, India; \
Department of Information Technology, Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur, 711103, India\
ABSTRACT: Surveillance videos and footages are the primary sources of evidence for any event or crime in the court of law. However, with the rapid advent of low-cost, computationally cheap video manipulating software and tools, video manipulation has become a no-brainer task today. This introduces a major challenge in authenticating the sanctity/originality of videos before they can be produced in the court, or used in other sensitive application domains. In this paper, we propose a digital forensic technique to detect inter-frame forgeries in surveillance videos. The proposed technique utilizes compressed domain video footprints i.e, prediction footprint variation and variation of motion vectors in videos, for the purpose of video forgery detection and localization. Through this work, we identify the type of forgery that has taken place in a video. We have performed experiment over 43 authentic and 720 inter-frame forged videos. Our experimental results indicate that the proposed technique performs consistently efficiently, irrespective of the group of pictures length and degree of compression in videos. \'a9 2020\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Inter-frame forgery;  Prediction footprint variation;  Variation of Motion Vectors;  Video forgery\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 129\
Linden, J., Taroni, F., Marquis, R., Bozza, S.\
57192274204;57203030918;8326464900;56252989000;\
Bayesian multivariate models for case assessment in dynamic signature cases\
(2021) Forensic Science International, 318, art. no. 110611, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85097241529&doi=10.1016%2fj.forsciint.2020.110611&partnerID=40&md5=27b2d3b436b34d81c7e59a58cceb76af\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2020.110611\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Criminal Justice, University of Lausanne, Lausanne Dorigny, CH-1015, Switzerland; \
Dipartimento di Economia, Universit\'e0 Ca' Foscari Venezia, Dorsoduro, 3246, Venezia, VE  30123, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Dynamic signatures are recordings of signatures made on digitizing devices such as tablet PCs. These handwritten signatures contain both dynamic and spatial information on every data point collected during the signature movement and can therefore be described in the form of multivariate data. The management of dynamic signatures represents a challenge for the forensic science community through its novelty and the volume of data available. Much as for static signatures, the authenticity of dynamic signatures may be doubted, which leads to a forensic examination of the unknown source signature. The Bayes\'92 factor, as measure of evidential support, can be assigned with statistical models to discriminate between competing propositions. In this respect, the limitations of existing probabilistic solutions to deal with dynamic signature evidence is pointed out and explained in detail. In particular, the necessity to remove the independence assumption between questioned and reference material is emphasized. \'a9 2020 The Authors\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Bayesian multivariate models;  Bayes\'92 factor;  Dynamic signatures;  Handwritten signature evaluation;  Questioned documents\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 130\
Chopade, R., Pachghare, V.\
57200983290;35107794800;\
Evaluation of Digital Forensic Tools in MongoDB Database Forensics\
(2021) Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, 1198, pp. 427-439. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85097088057&doi=10.1007%2f978-981-15-6584-7_40&partnerID=40&md5=5cd2458a3a0b5550c8bb3d228c240b59\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-981-15-6584-7_40\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Engineering Pune, Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), Wellesely Road, Shivajinagar, Pune, 411005, India\
ABSTRACT: Wide usage of online applications has increased the risk of misuse of data by affecting privacy and security policies. Digital forensics is a process of solving criminal cases related to digital devices. Technical growth in this area is the expansion of forensic tools to collect the pieces of evidence. Database forensics is one of the categories of digital forensics. Database forensics covers the scanning of various parts of it for data recovery or finding data tampering. Forensic tools are available for most of the relational databases. Very few tools are available in the market for NoSQL databases. This paper is an attempt to present available digital forensic tools and to experiment with relevant free tools on the MongoDB database to check the usefulness. \'a9 2021, Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Database forensics;  Digital forensic tools;  MongoDB;  NoSQL;  Recovery\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 131\
Ghosh, A., Majumder, K., De, D.\
57192385153;36891306500;16177578800;\
A Systematic Review of Digital, Cloud and IoT Forensics\
(2021) Lecture Notes in Networks and Systems, 163, pp. 31-74. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85096939431&doi=10.1007%2f978-981-15-9317-8_2&partnerID=40&md5=c84d76c0df2b23021d1c9064db8c2982\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-981-15-9317-8_2\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology, Kolkata, West Bengal, India\
ABSTRACT: Our world is proliferated with high-end devices that have multiple capabilities. These devices have an array of sensors embedded into them that collect an enormous amount of data. Because of rapid development in technology, these devices are capable of rendering state-of-the-art services that are based on the cloud. Assuredly, the proliferation of ultra-modern devices with high-end services, have modernized and eased our lives. But, some entities or adversaries of our society are exploiting the same technological innovation for their benefits. Such criminal activities have become even easier to be carried out with modern devices and other technologies. Fortunately, we can examine the confiscated digital devices such as android smartphones, laptops, smartwatches, etc., from a crime scene and gain insight into the criminal activities carried out by the adversaries. It is also possible for us to recover the data the adversaries have collected or transmitted. Since modern devices utilize the services provided by cloud computing, it naturally becomes essential for the analysis of the cloud in case of the investigation of a crime scene. IoT forensics is interdisciplinary, as the data to be investigated may be collected from sensors, smart devices, etc., connected to a crime scene and the cloud too. Digital Forensics is an easier task to be performed when compared to Cloud Forensics. The segregation and collection of evidence in a cloud forensic investigation is a mammoth task due to the distributed and multi-tenant nature of cloud computing. But there is no such problem associated with digital forensic investigation. In this chapter, we have reviewed the work on Digital, Cloud and IoT Forensics by the scientific community. We have compared their effort and the outcome of their work, and summarized the state-of-the-art in the field of Digital, Cloud and IoT Forensics. Our aim of this chapter is to create a thorough review that will help fellow researchers in thought association for getting a clearer picture of the current state of research on Digital, Cloud and IoT Forensics and find the research gaps. \'a9 2021, Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android forensics;  Blockchain;  Blockchain in forensics;  Cloud forensics;  Digital forensics;  Internet of Things forensics;  IoT forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 132\
Wu, J., Sun, W.\
57215927193;57188643306;\
Towards multi-operation image anti-forensics with generative adversarial networks\
(2021) Computers and Security, 100, art. no. 102083, . Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85096683411&doi=10.1016%2fj.cose.2020.102083&partnerID=40&md5=f9689462448581b5f8767b656bbf10ff\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.cose.2020.102083\
AFFILIATIONS: Guangdong Key Laboratory of Information Security Technology, and School of Electronics and Information Technology, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China; \
Information Technology Key Laboratory of the Ministry of Education, School of Electronic and Information Engineering, Sun Yat-sen University Guangzhou, China\
ABSTRACT: How to conceal or eliminate the traces left by multiple manipulating operations such as JPEG compression and median filtering successively, known as multi-operation anti-forensics, remains challenging in the field of multimedia security. The existing anti-forensic researches concentrate on concealing or eliminating the traces left by a particular manipulation, referred as single-operation anti-forensics. In this work, we investigate multi-operation anti-forensics with generative adversarial networks (GANs). The generator network is trained to automatically learn the visual and statistical features of the original images by applying appropriate loss functions in the process of optimization. The idea of this work is based on the observation that the single-operation anti-forensic models can be used and extended for multi-operation anti-forensics. We then propose and compare two multi-operation anti-forensic strategies: I) directly using multiple optimized generative models, which are trained for single-operation anti-forensics respectively; II) training the whole GANs to obtain the optimized generative models of multi-operation anti-forensics. The experimental results demonstrate that both strategies can deceive the existing forensic methods without loss of image quality, but the image quality of strategy II is better than that of strategy I which is characterized with the modularity. \'a9 2020\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: GANs;  Image anti-forensics;  Multi-Operation anti-forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 133\
Luo, S., Luo, J., Lu, W., Fang, Y., Zeng, J., Shi, S., Zhang, Y.\
57207831569;57220005361;26664168800;7403457875;36563010500;57201575973;57214255762;\
Resampling factor estimation via dual-stream convolutional neural network\
(2021) Computers, Materials and Continua, 66 (1), pp. 647-657. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85096479021&doi=10.32604%2fcmc.2020.012869&partnerID=40&md5=dc93ce35fe1283cd4dc4cabfbfd76ac9\
\
DOI: 10.32604/cmc.2020.012869\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Data and Computer Science, Guangdong Province Key Laboratory of Information Security Technology, Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Machine Intelligence and Advanced Computing, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China; \
Academy of Forensic Science, Shanghai, 200063, China; \
College of Information Science and Technology, Jinan University, Guangzhou, 510632, China; \
Department of Computer Science, University of Massachusetts Lowell, Lowell, MA  01854, United States\
ABSTRACT: The estimation of image resampling factors is an important problem in image forensics. Among all the resampling factor estimation methods, spectrumbased methods are one of the most widely used methods and have attracted a lot of research interest. However, because of inherent ambiguity, spectrum-based methods fail to discriminate upscale and downscale operations without any prior information. In general, the application of resampling leaves detectable traces in both spatial domain and frequency domain of a resampled image. Firstly, the resampling process will introduce correlations between neighboring pixels. In this case, a set of periodic pixels that are correlated to their neighbors can be found in a resampled image. Secondly, the resampled image has distinct and strong peaks on spectrum while the spectrum of original image has no clear peaks. Hence, in this paper, we propose a dual-stream convolutional neural network for image resampling factors estimation. One of the two streams is gray stream whose purpose is to extract resampling traces features directly from the rescaled images. The other is frequency stream that discovers the differences of spectrum between rescaled and original images. The features from two streams are then fused to construct a feature representation including the resampling traces left in spatial and frequency domain, which is later fed into softmax layer for resampling factor estimation. Experimental results show that the proposed method is effective on resampling factor estimation and outperforms some CNN-based methods. \'a9 2020 Tech Science Press. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Convolutional neural network;  Image forensics;  Image resampling detection;  Parameter estimation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 134\
Nowroozi, E., Dehghantanha, A., Parizi, R.M., Choo, K.-K.R.\
57200532119;36023169100;24478984000;57208540261;\
A survey of machine learning techniques in adversarial image forensics\
(2021) Computers and Security, 100, art. no. 102092, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85094859610&doi=10.1016%2fj.cose.2020.102092&partnerID=40&md5=42c8e40549645030ec926aa455e579a9\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.cose.2020.102092\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Engineering and Mathematics, University of Siena, Siena, Italy; \
School of Computer Science, University of Guelph, Ontario, Canada; \
College of Computing and Software Engineering, Kennesaw State UniversityGA, United States; \
Department of Information Systems and Cyber Security, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, and Department of Computer Science, University of Texas at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, United States\
ABSTRACT: Image forensic plays a crucial role in both criminal investigations (e.g., dissemination of fake images to spread racial hate or false narratives about specific ethnicity groups or political campaigns) and civil litigation (e.g., defamation). Increasingly, machine learning approaches are also utilized in image forensics. However, there are also a number of limitations and vulnerabilities associated with machine learning-based approaches (e.g., how to detect adversarial (image) examples), and there are associated real-world consequences (e.g., inadmissible evidence, or wrongful conviction). Therefore, with a focus on image forensics, this paper surveys techniques that can be used to enhance the robustness of machine learning-based binary manipulation detectors in various adversarial scenarios. \'a9 2020 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Adversarial learning;  Adversarial machine learning;  Adversarial setting;  Cyber security;  Image forensics;  Image manipulation detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 135\
Rani, A., Jain, A.\
56878535800;57211719989;\
Digital Image Forensics-Image Verification Techniques\
(2021) Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, 1172, pp. 221-234. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85092726679&doi=10.1007%2f978-981-15-5566-4_19&partnerID=40&md5=c4a77cd9201a74921e8c177c9e2791ce\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-981-15-5566-4_19\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, G L Bajaj Institute of Technology and Management, Greater Noida, Utter Pradesh, India; \
Department of Computer Science, Banasthali Vidyapith, Tonk, Rajasthan  304022, India\
ABSTRACT: In the present scenario of the digital era, we are on the brink of marginal transformation in digital imaging technology. Developments of high computational and artificial intelligence techniques have produced wonderful image editing techniques that create imposing results in stint frames. And, doing this will affect the original artifacts present in digital images. This refers to the manipulation or forgery of digital data with the help of image editing applications and this also erodes our trust in digital images. To rely on the semantics of digital images, there is significant research contribution in terms of various image forgery detection techniques. These techniques help to re-evaluate the authenticity of digital images. In this article, an examination of various research contributions is conducted. The primary goal of this work is to give a glimpse of various current existing techniques related to digital image forensics. These techniques are assessed as per their proficiencies and boundaries. Whenever possible, a comparison between similar domain techniques is presented. The main focus is on pixel and physics-based techniques. Our analysis discusses the challenges that are to be addressed in this area of forensic science and provides insight into various datasets available for researchers to develop and test new approaches. Finally, the work recommends possible future research directions. \'a9 2021, Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Content authentication;  Forgery detection;  Image forensics;  Passive techniques\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopes\
\
ID: 136\
He, P., Li, H., Wang, H., Wang, S., Jiang, X., Zhang, R.\
57075586900;56593801800;35216738700;55364979300;13607511800;57194035100;\
Frame-Wise Detection of Double HEVC Compression by Learning Deep Spatio-Temporal Representations in Compression Domain\
(2021) IEEE Transactions on Multimedia, 23, pp. 3179-3192. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85090435046&doi=10.1109%2fTMM.2020.3021234&partnerID=40&md5=3483854d5b60a8c36272d8e3828c9d51\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TMM.2020.3021234\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Cybersecurity, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 610065, China; \
School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, 639798, Singapore; \
Department of Computer Science, City University of Hong Kong, Kowloon, Hong Kong; \
City University of Hong Kong Shenzhen Institute, Shenzhen, 518057, China; \
Department of Cyber Science and Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China\
ABSTRACT: Detection of double compression is regarded as one primary step in analyzing the integrity of digital videos, which is of prominent importance in video forensics. However, current methods are vulnerable with the severe lossy quantization in the recompression process such that it is challenging to obtain reliable frame-wise detection results, especially for the high efficiency video coding (HEVC) standard. In view of these issues, in this paper, a hybrid neural network is proposed to reveal abnormal frames in HEVC videos with double compression by learning robust spatio-temporal representations from coding information in the compression domain. Based on the statistical analysis of Coding Units (CUs), it is interesting to find that HEVC video streams contain 'rich' coding information that could be leveraged to identify abnormal traces caused by double compression. Two types of coding information maps, including CU Size Map (CSM) and CU Prediction mode Map (CPM), are exploited. In contrast with the conventional paradigm relying on pixel-level representations of decoded frames, CSMs and CPMs of a short-time video clip are treated as the input, aiming to achieve high robustness against recompression of low quality. In our hybrid neural network, an attention-based two-stream residual network is proposed to learn hierarchical representations from CSM and CPM, which are then jointly optimized by the attention-based fusion module. Finally, the temporal variation is modeled by Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) to obtain frame-wise detection results. We have conducted extensive experiments considering various video content and coding parameters, such as bitrates and sizes of Group of Picture. Experimental results show that our approach can obtain state-of-the-art performance compared with conventional methods, especially when videos are recompressed in the low bitrate coding scenarios. \'a9 1999-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Coding information map;  double HEVC compression;  hybrid neural network;  spatio-temporal representation;  video forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 137\
Grigaliunas, S., Toldinas, J., Venckauskas, A., Morkevicius, N., Damasevicius, R.\
57194528217;25654423800;55061639500;35752455800;6603451290;\
Digital Evidence Object Model for Situation Awareness and Decision Making in Digital Forensics Investigation\
(2021) IEEE Intelligent Systems, 36 (5), pp. 39-48. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85090188060&doi=10.1109%2fMIS.2020.3020008&partnerID=40&md5=0dbb29507d9427b0a799dfbb4e60fb65\
\
DOI: 10.1109/MIS.2020.3020008\
AFFILIATIONS: Kaunas University of Technology, Kaunas, Lithuania\
ABSTRACT: The aim of a forensic investigation is to provide situation awareness in terms of identification and preservation of digital evidence, extraction of information, and analysis of extracted information to facilitate time-critical decision making. Digital forensic investigation is a process of collecting, examining, and analyzing digital data from various places such as digital devices, networks, and big data in the cloud. Here we propose a novel digital evidence object (DEO) model for the reduction of forensics data in digital forensic investigation and describe its application. The proposed DEO model is based on the synergy of category theory and integration of 5Ws (Who, What, When, Where, and Why) of digital investigation analysis techniques for digital evidence acquisition. We present a real-life case study to demonstrate its suitability for assisting computer forensics experts in the digital evidence investigation. Our results demonstrate that the application of the DEO model can noticeably decrease the number of false positive evidence objects submitted to a forensics expert, thus reducing his/her workload and improving decision making performance in a time-critical setting. \'a9 2001-2011 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: category theory;  digital evidence;  digital forensics;  situation-awareness;  time-critical decision making\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 138\
Vinolin, V., Sucharitha, M.\
57218597406;56755283400;\
Spliced image detection in 3d lighting environments using neural networks\
(2021) Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, 1171, pp. 143-152. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85089717586&doi=10.1007%2f978-981-15-5400-1_15&partnerID=40&md5=c4dcf2ec86c7d1b1a70ff2ecbdcbf91c\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-981-15-5400-1_15\
AFFILIATIONS: Research Scholar, Noorul Islam Centre for Higher Education, Kumaracoil, Tamil Nadu, India; \
Malla Reddy College of Engineering and Technology, Maisammaguda, Telangana, India\
ABSTRACT: Digital image forensics is a trending research domain that validates the authenticity of the digital images. The traditional methods invested time on detecting the device used for capturing and identifying the traces. Nowadays, it is interesting to note that the illumination deviations in the image provide an effective trace for detecting the forgeries in the image. Accordingly, a method is developed for detecting the spliced image based on the illumination features. Initially, the human faces in the composite image are detected, and the three-dimensional model of all the faces is derived using the landmark-based 3D morphable model (L3DMM). The light coefficients are determined using the 3D shape model for extracting the features. To identify the spliced/pristine images in the input composite image, neural network (NN) is used, which is trained using the standard back-propagation algorithm. The experiments were conducted on DSO-1 and DSI-1 datasets. Performance metrics such as accuracy, true positive rate (TPR), true negative rate (TNR) and ROC are used to prove the efficiency of the proposed method. \'a9 Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd 2021.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Image forensics;  Image forgery detection;  Neural network;  Spliced images;  Three-dimensional model\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 139\
Peng, L., Zhu, X., Zhang, P.\
57192091645;57216611992;57211785733;\
An Efficient Model for Smartphone Forensics Using SMS Spam Filtering\
(2020) 2020 3rd International Conference on Hot Information-Centric Networking, HotICN 2020, art. no. 9350843, pp. 166-169. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85102127025&doi=10.1109%2fHotICN50779.2020.9350843&partnerID=40&md5=9d36867b3cac34662bda4b330c48216a\
\
DOI: 10.1109/HotICN50779.2020.9350843\
AFFILIATIONS: Sichuan Police College, Department of Computer Science and Technology, Luzhou, China; \
China West Normal University, School of Computer Science, Nanchong, China; \
Southwest University of Science and Technology, School of Science, Mianyang, China\
ABSTRACT: With the development of smartphones and mobile communication technology, short message service (SMS) has been becoming more and more popular based on the low cost and easy operation. Research data show that more than 95% of mobile users will read their SMS at the end of the day, but about 80 percent of emails are ignored. In practice, SMS might be misused by unscrupulous people, for example, some illegal businessman or companies will employ SMS sending lots of advertising information to make a profit. In the work of smartphone forensics, if various spam messages are stored at people's smartphones, investigators will spend much time and human effort to delete spam. To perform investigation in smartphone efficiently, in this paper, we present a smartphone forensics model that based on machine learning technique to filter SMS spam and segregate the relevance evidence for investigation. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: machine learning;  smartphone forensics model;  SMS spam\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 140 **SELECTED** SID: 7\
Daubner, L., MacAk, M., Buhnova, B., Pitner, T.\
57210978728;57210979368;35781665200;25654312500;\
Towards verifiable evidence generation in forensic-ready systems\
(2020) Proceedings - 2020 IEEE International Conference on Big Data, Big Data 2020, art. no. 9378035, pp. 2264-2269. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85103815720&doi=10.1109%2fBigData50022.2020.9378035&partnerID=40&md5=ee3ab06b702db8873d40c9122fdf6616\
\
DOI: 10.1109/BigData50022.2020.9378035\
AFFILIATIONS: Masaryk University, Faculty of Informatics, Brno, Czech Republic\
ABSTRACT: With the increasing threat of cybercrime, there is also an increasing need for the forensic investigation of those crimes. However, the topic of systematic preparation on the possible forensic investigation during the software development, called forensic readiness, has only been explored since recently. Thus, there are still many challenges and open issues. One of the obstacles is ensuring the correct implementation. Moreover, the growing volume and variety of digital evidence produced by the systems have to be put into consideration. It is especially important in the critical information infrastructure domain where potential cyberattacks could impact the safety of people. In this paper, we present research towards verification of forensic readiness in software development, with a focus on digital evidence they produce, to assist the advancement of this research domain. Furthermore, we formulate a process that serves a template for designing, developing, and refining a verification method for forensic-ready software systems. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Evidence;  Forensic by Design;  Forensic Readiness;  Software Development;  Verification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 141\
Wu, J., Liu, L., Kang, X., Sun, W.\
57215927193;57225131061;7102354750;57188643306;\
A Generative Adversarial Network Framework for JPEG Anti-Forensics\
(2020) 2020 Asia-Pacific Signal and Information Processing Association Annual Summit and Conference, APSIPA ASC 2020 - Proceedings, art. no. 9306490, pp. 1442-1447. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85100919989&partnerID=40&md5=dd7789183499aa6683b62c0c5c977229\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Sun Yat-sen University, Guangdong Key Laboratory of Information Security Technology, Guangzhou, China; \
Kwai Inc., San Jose, 95123, United States; \
Sun Yat-sen University, Information Technology Key Laboratory of the Ministry of Education, Guangzhou, China\
ABSTRACT: JPEG anti-forensics aims to remove the artifacts left by JPEG compression and recover JPEG compressed images. However, the existing JPEG anti-forensic methods often introduce new traces and cause the degradation of visual quality of the processed images. In this work, JPEG anti-forensics are modelled as an image-to-image translation problem, where a generative adversarial network framework is used to translate a JPEG compressed image to a reconstructed one. Since JPEG compression causes impairment to high-frequency components, a loss function of high-frequency Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT) coefficients is proposed to recover these components. To prevent forensic detection, a calibration loss function is further introduced to mitigate the variance gap in the high-frequency subbands between generated images and their calibrated versions. Our experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method achieves better image quality than the existing state-of-the-art JPEG anti-forensic methods with comparable anti-forensic performance. \'a9 2020 APSIPA.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: calibration loss;  GAN;  high-frequency loss;  JPEG anti-forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 142\
Michael, N., Mink, J., Liu, J., Gaur, S., Hassan, W.U., Bates, A.\
57219686657;57221052840;57221054594;57221053866;57209781481;55498417300;\
On the Forensic Validity of Approximated Audit Logs\
(2020) PervasiveHealth: Pervasive Computing Technologies for Healthcare, art. no. 3427272, pp. 189-202. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85098086756&doi=10.1145%2f3427228.3427272&partnerID=40&md5=be8af6fb1c38bc82d9d0c2d2b8d298ee\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3427228.3427272\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, United States\
ABSTRACT: Auditing is an increasingly essential tool for the defense of computing systems, but the unwieldy nature of log data imposes significant burdens on administrators and analysts. To address this issue, a variety of techniques have been proposed for approximating the contents of raw audit logs, facilitating efficient storage and analysis. However, the security value of these approximated logs is difficult to measure - relative to the original log, it is unclear if these techniques retain the forensic evidence needed to effectively investigate threats. Unfortunately, prior work has only investigated this issue anecdotally, demonstrating sufficient evidence is retained for specific attack scenarios. In this work, we address this gap in the literature through formalizing metrics for quantifying the forensic validity of an approximated audit log under differing threat models. In addition to providing quantifiable security arguments for prior work, we also identify a novel point in the approximation design space - that log events describing typical (benign) system activity can be aggressively approximated, while events that encode anomalous behavior should be preserved with lossless fidelity. We instantiate this notion of Attack-Preserving forensic validity in LogApprox, a new approximation technique that eliminates the redundancy of voluminous file I/O associated with benign process activities. We evaluate LogApprox alongside a corpus of exemplar approximation techniques from prior work and demonstrate that LogApprox achieves comparable log reduction rates while retaining 100% of attack-identifying log events. Additionally, we utilize this evaluation to illuminate the inherent trade-off between performance and utility within existing approximation techniques. This work thus establishes trustworthy foundations for the design of the next generation of efficient auditing frameworks. \'a9 2020 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Auditing;  Data Provenance;  Digital Forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 143\
Mandelli, S., Bonettini, N., Bestagini, P., Tubaro, S.\
56428057900;57195676788;21638596100;7003411765;\
Training CNNs in Presence of JPEG Compression: Multimedia Forensics vs Computer Vision\
(2020) 2020 IEEE International Workshop on Information Forensics and Security, WIFS 2020, art. no. 9360903, . Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85098231497&doi=10.1109%2fWIFS49906.2020.9360903&partnerID=40&md5=a1b08bd74aeba1b6e2f6dc36f8dcab63\
\
DOI: 10.1109/WIFS49906.2020.9360903\
AFFILIATIONS: Politecnico di Milano, Dipartimento di Elettronica, Informazione e Bioingegneria, Milano, 20133, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have proved very accurate in multiple computer vision image classification tasks that required visual inspection in the past (e.g., object recognition, face detection, etc.). Motivated by these astonishing results, researchers have also started using CNNs to cope with image forensic problems (e.g., camera model identification, tampering detection, etc.). However, in computer vision, image classification methods typically rely on visual cues easily detectable by human eyes. Conversely, forensic solutions rely on almost invisible traces that are often very subtle and lie in the fine details of the image under analysis. For this reason, training a CNN to solve a forensic task requires some special care, as common processing operations (e.g., resampling, compression, etc.) can strongly hinder forensic traces. In this work, we focus on the effect that JPEG has on CNN training considering different computer vision and forensic image classification problems. Specifically, we consider the issues that rise from JPEG compression and misalignment of the JPEG grid. We show that it is necessary to consider these effects when generating a training dataset in order to properly train a forensic detector not losing generalization capability, whereas it is almost possible to ignore these effects for computer vision tasks. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 144 **SELECTED** SID: 8\
Dija, S., Ajana, J., Indu, V., Sabarinath, M.\
37012509900;57222102925;57210571012;57222111726;\
Cyber Forensics: Discovering Traces of Malware on Windows Systems\
(2020) 2020 IEEE Recent Advances in Intelligent Computational Systems, RAICS 2020, art. no. 9332496, pp. 141-146. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85101471625&doi=10.1109%2fRAICS51191.2020.9332496&partnerID=40&md5=28e5ceae4212fb4f7877d7c5359d37f2\
\
DOI: 10.1109/RAICS51191.2020.9332496\
AFFILIATIONS: Center for Development of Advanced Computing, Thiruvananthapuram, India\
ABSTRACT: Malware Crimes are ubiquitous nowadays. One of the challenges faced by Cyber Forensics Investigators is to retrieve the details of a suspicious program, which might be malware, from a computer. Another challenge is that anti-forensics techniques are often adopted by criminals after committing cybercrimes to hide the presence of suspicious programs and their associated details. In such cases, footprints of the suspicious programs and the related details may be deleted or overwritten from the Suspect's computer. This paper presents a detailed procedure to reconstruct or retrieve crucial information related to those suspicious programs from various sources on a Windows Computer. This type of analysis reveals the traces of these programs from their remnants available on a computer. This paper describes methodologies for examining the storage media as well as random access memory content of the Suspect's computer to retrieve such footprints. It also includes the steps for analyzing various Windows 10 artefacts that may hold the footprints of malware even after it is deleted or overwritten from the original location. The paper also explains the results of experiments conducted to identify the traces of suspicious executables which are deleted or still existing on the Computer. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyber Forensics;  Live Forensics;  Malware Forensics;  Memory Forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 145\
Murthy, P.S., Nagalakshmi, V.\
57221957420;46461783500;\
Database forensics and security measures to defend from cyber threats\
(2020) Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Intelligent Sustainable Systems, ICISS 2020, art. no. 9316042, pp. 1302-1307. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85100716017&doi=10.1109%2fICISS49785.2020.9316042&partnerID=40&md5=9b4fb1ce8fa9cad90a8118572beb807a\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICISS49785.2020.9316042\
AFFILIATIONS: GITAM University, Research Scholar, Dept. of CSE, India\
ABSTRACT: With the present technology, users are generating huge data by using various applications based on the usage data is transferred to database. Database technology provides an efficient, easy and secured procedures for managing the data and information systematically. All the operations of data manipulation and maintenance are done by using Database Management System (DBMS) with Computer Networks which has become a powerful medium for fast information exchange and access. Ensuring security of the database is very a critical issue for any organization. Mainly security threats include any action to deny, exploit and corrupt or destroy the information by attackers. The systems have to be defended from various security threats by adopting proper security measures and techniques.The need of Database Forensics is increasing for investigating the cyber threats and database level attacks. Database forensics is becoming an important field now a days, which can be used to identify, detect, acquire, analyze cyber-attacks in the databases and its related systems. It is also required to make suitable readiness for cybercrime investigation team at organizational level to make at least preliminary level investigations. This paper briefly discusses about the database forensics and its security measures. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Artifacts;  Cyber-attacks;  Database Activity Monitoring;  Database Firewall;  Database Security;  Digital Forensics;  Investigation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 146 **SELECTED** SID: 9\
Shafiee Hasanabadi, S., Habibi Lashkari, A., Ghorbani, A.A.\
57221328243;35069899900;57219106164;\
A survey and research challenges of anti-forensics: Evaluation of game-theoretic models in simulation of forensic agents\'92 behaviour\
(2020) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 35, art. no. 301024, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85098874308&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2020.301024&partnerID=40&md5=76d1dca036f56b1f94d87c7e04c3eefa\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2020.301024\
AFFILIATIONS: Canadian Institute for Cybersecurity, University of New Brunswick (UNB), Fredericton, NB, Canada\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensic investigators\'92 aim is identifying, collecting and presenting reliable, accurate, and admissible evidence in court. However, anti-forensics manipulate, obfuscate, hide, and remove the remaining piece of evidence in a compromised system. Anti-forensics interrupt investigation procedures; thus, the investigators require specific defensive strategies (counter-anti-forensics) against anti-forensics. This paper mounts a survey to explore existing anti-forensic research, and constitute a taxonomy on behaviour of anti-forensics and another taxonomy on further research tasks of anti-forensics. The knowledge of interactions between forensic agents' (an investigator and an attacker) in a forensic environment helps the investigator to evaluate the existing counter-anti-forensics, and enables him/her to design and develop more advanced counter-anti-forensics. Therefore, in this paper, first, we formulate a set of characteristics to model interactions between the attacker and the investigator (players) in a realistic forensic environment. Next, we propose a game-theoretic approach to model the players' interactions. The attacker uses anti-forensics (i.e. rootkits) and the investigator employs counter-anti-forensics (i.e. anti-rootkits). We select and evaluate a set of game-theoretic models and algorithms to simulate the players' interactions. Results of the evaluation show that a gradient play algorithm has satisfactory performance, among the selected game-theoretic models and algorithms to simulate the interactions in the forensic environment. The gradient play algorithm identifies the investigator's most stable and desired strategies after spending 10.0E-4 s and consuming 5.8 KB. \'a9 2020 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Bayesian game theory;  Counter-anti-forensics;  Digital forensics;  Evolutionary game theory;  Fictitious play;  Forensic environment;  Game theory;  Gradient play\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 147\
Horsman, G., Sunde, N.\
55366646200;57208244313;\
Part 1: The need for peer review in digital forensics\
(2020) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 35, art. no. 301062, . Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85098474719&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2020.301062&partnerID=40&md5=a66ba479b0ccc09ae4f47dc8b571e421\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2020.301062\
AFFILIATIONS: Teesside University, Tees Valley, Middlesbrough, TS1 3BX, United Kingdom; \
Norwegian Police University College, Pb. 2109 Vika, Oslo, 0125, Norway\
ABSTRACT: The importance of peer review in the field of digital forensics cannot be underestimated as it often forms the primary, and sometimes only form of quality assurance process an organisation will apply to their practitioners' casework. Whilst there is clear value in the peer review process, it remains an area which is arguably undervalued and under-researched, where little academic and industrial commentary can be found describing best practice approaches. This work forms the first of a two part series discussing why the digital forensics discipline and its organisations should conduct peer review in their laboratories, what it should review as part of this process, and how this should be undertaken. Here in part one, a critical review of the need to peer review is offered along with a discussion of the limitations of existing peer review mechanisms. Finally, the \'91Peer Review Hierarchy\'92 is offered, outlining the seven levels of peer review available for reviewing practitioner findings. \'a9 2020 The Authors\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Forensic science;  Peer review;  Quality assurance;  Quality control\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 148\
Kanta, A., Coisel, I., Scanlon, M.\
57210864448;23395855500;52264702800;\
A survey exploring open source Intelligence for smarter password cracking\
(2020) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 35, art. no. 301075, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85098474378&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2020.301075&partnerID=40&md5=541cd20f1b94e8b6b0b2514639ffa389\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2020.301075\
AFFILIATIONS: European Commission Joint Research Centre (DG JRC), Via Enrico Fermi 2749, Ispra, VA  21027, Italy; \
Forensics and Security Research Group, School of Computer Science, University College Dublin, Ireland\
ABSTRACT: From the end of the last century to date, consumers are increasingly living their lives online. In today's world, the average person spends a significant proportion of their time connecting with people online through multiple platforms. This online activity results in people freely sharing an increasing amount of personal information \'96 as well as having to manage how they share that information. For law enforcement, this corresponds to a slew of new sources of digital evidence valuable for digital forensic investigation. A combination of consumer level encryption becoming default on personal computing and mobile devices and the need to access information stored with third parties has resulted in a need for robust password cracking techniques to progress lawful investigation. However, current password cracking techniques are expensive, time-consuming processes that are not guaranteed to be successful in the time-frames common for investigations. In this paper, the potential for Open Source Intelligence (OSINT) being leveraged for more efficient password cracking is explored. A comprehensive survey of the literature on password strength, password cracking, and OSINT is outlined, and the law enforcement challenges surrounding these topics are discussed. Additionally, an analysis on password structure as well as demographic factors influencing password selection is presented. Finally, the potential impact of OSINT to password cracking by law enforcement is discussed. \'a9 2020 The Author(s)\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Context-based password cracking;  Digital investigation;  Open source intelligence;  Password security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 149\
OliveiraJr, E., Zorzo, A.F., Neu, C.V.\
57199324461;55884766600;57193714822;\
Towards a conceptual model for promoting digital forensics experiments\
(2020) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 35, art. no. 301014, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85098474002&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2020.301014&partnerID=40&md5=9cbfe338317d309c7884b450e1df730a\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2020.301014\
AFFILIATIONS: Informatics Department, State University of Maring\'e1 (UEM), Brazil; \
School of Technology, Pontifical Catholic University of Rio Grande do Sul (PUCRS), Brazil; \
Computing Department, University of Santa Cruz do Sul (UNISC), Brazil\
ABSTRACT: Experimentation is one of the foundations for scientific evolution from the empirical point of view. Conducting experiments contributes to strengthen evidence of a given field mainly based on provided data and results, corroborated by repetitions, replications or reproducibility of an experiment, which altogether confirms or rejects pre-established hypotheses. Therefore, the proper conduction, documentation and dissemination of such experiments are essential to enable reproducibility. In this paper, we present ExperDF-CM, a conceptual model that aims to assist Digital Forensics researchers on planning, executing, analyzing and disseminating experiments. Such conceptual model was built based on almost two hundred analyzed Digital Forensics experiment papers and is mainly organized in five elements: Planning, Pre-Operation, Operation, Analysis and Interpretation, and Dissemination. We evaluated the conceptual model based on an evaluation survey and the Technology Acceptance Model (TAM) with researchers and practitioners of the Digital Forensics area. Results point out that our conceptual model is feasible for promoting reproducibility of Digital Forensics experiments, as well as it is easy to use and useful. Thus, our proposed conceptual model can contribute significantly to improve Digital Forensics experimentation and make them repeatable, replicable, and/or reproducible. \'a9 2020 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Concept map;  Conceptual model;  Digital forensics;  Experimentation;  Knowledge semantic-based model\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 150\
Cunha, D.D.O., Silva, E.A., Lambert, J.D.A., Ribeiro, R.O.\
57221174382;57221174399;57221174371;57221174468;\
Peritus Framework: Towards multimedia evidence analysis uniformization in brazilian distributed forensic model\
(2020) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 35, art. no. 301089, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85098473257&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2020.301089&partnerID=40&md5=3187ef98c4acd591dadfa69ded0cfb93\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2020.301089\
AFFILIATIONS: National Institute of Criminalistics, Brazilian Federal Police, BrasiliaDF, Brazil; \
Regional Superintendence at Bahia, Brazilian Federal Police, Salvador, BA, Brazil\
ABSTRACT: Multimedia forensic analysts must be able to cope with an increasing volume and diversity of seized multimedia evidence. Therefore, these professionals must understand a variety of multimedia related technologies and are usually obliged to rely on a set of different tools to perform their analyses. In a diverse and distributed scenario such as the one experienced in Brazil, where forensic services are distributed between Federal and States\'92 jurisdictions and forensic analysts come from different backgrounds, it is difficult to obtain uniform responses from the different forensic units. This non-uniformity in response procedures results in variable quality and reliability of the performed analyses. In this work, we propose the Peritus framework and present its underlying software as instruments to increase efficiency, reinforce reproducibility, strengthen the chain of custody and achieve response uniformization throughout the country. The presented software is designed on a modular architecture. It integrates a large number of useful forensic tools, taking care of most of the non-automated normalization and integration associated with the forensic analyses and documentation while providing multiple specialized tools. Our experience and the feedback received show that the natural flow and the integration provided by the presented system significantly improves efficiency and the robustness of the obtained results. We believe the Peritus framework plays an important role in the Brazilian distributed forensic scenario, working as a knowledge center for developed tools and a methodological guideline. \'a9 2020 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Multimedia forensics;  Multimedia tools;  Peritus;  Processing framework;  Response uniformization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 151\
Dolo\'9a, K., Meyer, C., Attenberger, A., Steinberger, J.\
55217702200;57225810348;54971113900;55780150600;\
Driver identification using in-vehicle digital data in the forensic context of a hit and run accident\
(2020) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 35, art. no. 301090, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85098227464&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2020.301090&partnerID=40&md5=3acf3d172158ea0f874047ded4ee7944\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2020.301090\
AFFILIATIONS: Central Office for Information Technology in the Security Sector (ZITiS), Zamdorfer Str. 88, Munich, 81677, Germany\
ABSTRACT: One major focus in forensics is the identification of individuals based on different kinds of evidence found at a crime scene and in the digital domain. In the present study, we assessed the potential of using in-vehicle digital data to capture the natural driving behavior of individuals in order to identify them. Freely available data was used to classify drivers by their natural driving behavior. We formulated a forensic scenario of a hit and run car accident with three known suspects. Suggestions are provided for an understandable and useful reporting of model results in the light of the requirements in digital forensics. Specific aims of this study were 1) to develop a workflow for driver identification in digital forensics, 2) to apply a simple but sound method for model validation with time series data and 3) to transfer the model results to answers to the two forensic questions a) to which suspect does the evidence most likely belong to and b) how certain is the evidence claim. Based on freely available data (Kwak et al., 2017) the first question could be answered by unsupervised classification using a random forest model validated by random block splitting. To answer the second question we used model accuracy and false detection rate (FDR) which were 93% and 7%, respectively. Furthermore, we reported the random match probability (RMP) as well as the opportunity of a visual interpretation of the prediction on the time series for the evidence data in our hypothetical hit and run accident. \'a9 2020 The Authors\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: CAN-BUS data;  Natural driving behavior;  Random forest;  Time series;  Validation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 152\
Katsaounidou, A.N., Gardikiotis, A., Tsipas, N., Dimoulas, C.A.\
57201341749;57221091442;55762300600;57105254400;\
News authentication and tampered images: evaluating the photo-truth impact through image verification algorithms\
(2020) Heliyon, 6 (12), art. no. e05808, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85098189105&doi=10.1016%2fj.heliyon.2020.e05808&partnerID=40&md5=3df6100da3b5425b6dabaf2858112c0a\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e05808\
AFFILIATIONS: Multidisciplinary Media & Mediated Communication Research Group, School of Journalism and Mass Communications, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Greece\
ABSTRACT: Photos have been used as evident material in news reporting almost since the beginning of Journalism. In this context, manipulated or tampered pictures are very common as part of informing articles, in today's misinformation crisis. The current paper investigates the ability of people to distinguish real from fake images. The presented data derive from two studies. Firstly, an online cross-sectional survey (N = 120) was conducted to analyze ordinary human skills in recognizing forgery attacks. The target was to evaluate individuals' perception in identifying manipulated visual content, therefore, to investigate the feasibility of \'93crowdsourced validation\'94. This last term refers to the process of gathering fact-checking feedback from multiple users, thus collaborating towards assembling pieces of evidence on an event. Secondly, given that contemporary veracity solutions are coupled with both journalistic principles and technology developments, an experiment in two phases was employed: a) A repeated measures experiment was conducted to quantify the associated abilities of Media and Image Experts (N = 5 + 5) in detecting tampering artifacts. In this latter case, image verification algorithms were put into the core of the analysis procedure to examine their impact on the authenticity assessment task. b) Apart from conducting interview sessions with the selected experts and their proper guidance in using the tools, a second experiment was also deployed on a larger scale through an online survey (N = 301), aiming at validating some of the initial findings. The primary intent of the deployed analysis and their combined interpretation was to evaluate image forensic services, offered as real-world tools, regarding their comprehension and utilization by ordinary people, involved in the everyday battle against misinformation. The outcomes confirmed the suspicion that only a few subjects had prior knowledge of the implicated algorithmic solutions. Although these assistive tools often lead to controversial or even contradictory conclusions, their experimental treatment with the systematic training in their proper use boosted the participants' performance. Overall, the research findings indicate that the scores of successful detections, relying exclusively on human observations, cannot be disregarded. Hence, the ultimate challenge for the \'93verification industry\'94 should be to balance between forensic automations and the human experience, aiming at defending the audience from inaccurate information propagation. \'a9 2020\
Content authentication; digital forensics; image tampering; misinformation, verification assistance algorithms \'a9 2020\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Content authentication;  Digital forensics;  Image tampering;  Misinformation;  Verification assistance algorithms\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 153\
Oh, D.B., Park, K.H., Kim, H.K.\
57219013082;57214779379;7410133266;\
De-Wipimization: Detection of data wiping traces for investigating NTFS file system\
(2020) Computers and Security, 99, art. no. 102034, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85090998215&doi=10.1016%2fj.cose.2020.102034&partnerID=40&md5=092430d481e146fe89f5919f9f1e16cf\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.cose.2020.102034\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Cybersecurity, Korea University, Seoul, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Data wiping is used to securely delete securely unwanted files. However, the misuse of data wiping can destroy pieces of evidence to be spoiled in a digital forensic investigation. To cope with the misuse of data wiping, we proposed an anti-anti-forensic method based on NTFS transaction features and a machine learning algorithm. This method allows investigators to obtain information regarding \'91which files are wiped\'92 and \'91which data wiping tools and data sanitization standards used\'92. In this study, we achieved good identification of data wiping traces in the NTFS file system. Leveraging the efficiency of machine learning models, our method effectively recognizes wiped partitions and files in the NTFS file system and identifies tools used in data sanitization. \'a9 2020 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensic;  Cybercrime;  Data wiping;  Machine learning\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 154\
Skopik, F., Pahi, T.\
27568141600;57195418525;\
Under false flag: using technical artifacts for cyber attack attribution\
(2020) Cybersecurity, 3 (1), art. no. 8, . Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85089581879&doi=10.1186%2fs42400-020-00048-4&partnerID=40&md5=169d1dedcd979f93a57d8d3863c0c472\
\
DOI: 10.1186/s42400-020-00048-4\
AFFILIATIONS: Center for Digital Safety and Security, AIT Austrian Institute of Technology, Austria, Giefinggasse 4, Vienna, Austria\
ABSTRACT: The attribution of cyber attacks is often neglected. The consensus still is that little can be done to prosecute the perpetrators \'96 and unfortunately, this might be right in many cases. What is however only of limited interest for the private industry is in the center of interest for nation states. Investigating if an attack was carried out in the name of a nation state is a crucial task for secret services. Many methods, tools and processes exist for network- and computer forensics that allow the collection of traces and evidences. They are the basis to associate adversarial actions to threat actors. However, a serious problem which has not got the appropriate attention from research yet, are false flag campaigns, cyber attacks which apply covert tactics to deceive or misguide attribution attempts \'96 either to hide traces or to blame others. In this paper we provide an overview of prominent attack techniques along the cyber kill chain. We investigate traces left by attack techniques and which questions in course of the attribution process are answered by investigating these traces. Eventually, we assess how easily traces can be spoofed and rate their relevancy with respect to identifying false flag campaigns. \'a9 2020, The Author(s).\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Actor attribution;  Advanced persistent threats;  False flag campaigns;  Technical indicators\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 155\
Hsu, C.-L., Chen, W.-X., Le, T.-V.\
7404946444;57219897909;57215832639;\
An autonomous log storage management protocol with blockchain mechanism and access control for the internet of things\
(2020) Sensors (Switzerland), 20 (22), art. no. 6471, pp. 1-32. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85095965652&doi=10.3390%2fs20226471&partnerID=40&md5=7aadc4ff4d824befaf620d885e948e21\
\
DOI: 10.3390/s20226471\
AFFILIATIONS: Department Information Management, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, 33302, Taiwan; \
Graduate Institute of Business and Management, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, 33302, Taiwan; \
Healthy Aging Research Center, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, 33302, Taiwan; \
Department Visual Communication Design, Ming Chi University of Technology, New Taipei, 24301, Taiwan; \
Department Nursing, Taoyuan Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taoyuan, 333, Taiwan\
ABSTRACT: As the Internet of Things (IoT) has become prevalent, a massive number of logs produced by IoT devices are transmitted and processed every day. The logs should contain important contents and private information. Moreover, these logs may be used as evidences for forensic investigations when cyber security incidents occur. However, evidence legality and internal security issues in existing works were not properly addressed. This paper proposes an autonomous log storage management protocol with blockchain mechanism and access control for the IoT. Autonomous model allows sensors to encrypt their logs before sending it to gateway and server, so that the logs are not revealed to the public during communication process. Along with blockchain, we introduce the concept \'93signature chain\'94. The integration of blockchain and signature chain provides efficient management functions with valuable security properties for the logs, including robust identity verification, data integrity, non-repudiation, data tamper resistance, and the legality. Our work also employs attribute-based encryption to achieve fine-grained access control and data confidentiality. The results of security analysis using AVSIPA toolset, GNY logic and semantic proof indicate that the proposed protocol meets various security requirements. Providing good performance with elliptic curve small key size, short BLS signature, efficient signcryption method, and single sign-on solution, our work is suitable for the IoT. \'a9 2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Attribute-based access control;  Digital forensics;  Evidence legality;  Sensor log;  Signature chain\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 156\
Siddiqi, M., Ali, S.T., Sivaraman, V.\
56490009000;34869136700;55882671700;\
Forensic Verification of Health Data from Wearable Devices Using Anonymous Witnesses\
(2020) IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 7 (11), art. no. 9046231, pp. 10745-10762. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85096244395&doi=10.1109%2fJIOT.2020.2982958&partnerID=40&md5=0b5d63b43898aaecc42f15878a64fc3f\
\
DOI: 10.1109/JIOT.2020.2982958\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Business Information Systems, Australian Institute of Higher Education, Sydney, NSW  2000, Australia; \
School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, National University of Science and Technology, Islamabad, 44000, Pakistan; \
School of Electrical Engineering and Telecommunications, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW  2052, Australia\
ABSTRACT: The use of wearable devices, such as smartwatches, glasses, clothes, and fitness bracelets is increasing at an ever-growing pace. Major corporations and insurance companies have started mandating their use for their employees and clients. Data from such devices have begun to feature in settlement claims and as evidence in courts as well, requiring it to be irrefutable and tamper-proof. Lack of protection for personal data as well as the contextual information such as location tracking and its use by law enforcement agencies is raising serious privacy concerns among the general public and civil liberty advocates. In this article, we propose a novel scheme to secure the wearable sensor's communication through its crowdsourced logging by neighboring wearable and smart devices called witnesses preserving the contextual information (such as time and location) as well. To ensure witness privacy, gateway and witness devices use the reciprocity property of wireless medium between them to generate pairs of closely matching link signatures, which not only provide the proof of presence for the witnesses in the vicinity but also act as their time-varying pseudonyms. We demonstrate the feasibility and efficacy of our scheme through the prototype implementation using real wireless devices, and via simulation and experimental results. \'a9 2014 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Body sensor networks;  crowdsourcing;  forensics;  Internet of Things;  network security;  wearable sensors\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 157\
Bourouis, S., Alroobaea, R., Alharbi, A.M., Andejany, M., Rubaiee, S.\
24474162900;56004657600;57209217043;57193625362;57194612285;\
Recent advances in digital multimedia tampering detection for forensics analysis\
(2020) Symmetry, 12 (11), art. no. 1811, pp. 1-26. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85095135748&doi=10.3390%2fsym12111811&partnerID=40&md5=dacfed38af94e783cab9ff30640b9b74\
\
DOI: 10.3390/sym12111811\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Technology, College of Computers and Information Technology, Taif University, Taif, P.O. Box 11099, Taif, 21944, Saudi Arabia; \
LR-SITI Laboratoire Signal Image et Technologies de l\'92Information, ENIT, Universit\'e9 de Tunis El Manar, Tunis, 1002, Tunisia; \
Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering, College of Engineering, University of Jeddah, Jeddah, 21589, Saudi Arabia\
ABSTRACT: In the digital multimedia era, digital forensics is becoming an emerging area of research thanks to the large amount of image and video files generated. Ensuring the integrity of such media is of great importance in many situations. This task has become more complex, especially with the progress of symmetrical and asymmetrical network structures which make their authenticity difficult. Consequently, it is absolutely imperative to discover all possible modes of manipulation through the development of new forensics detector tools. Although many solutions have been developed, tamper-detection performance is far from reliable and it leaves this problem widely open for further investigation. In particular, many types of multimedia fraud are difficult to detect because some evidences are not exploited. For example, the symmetry and asymmetry inconsistencies related to visual feature properties are potential when applied at multiple scales and locations. We explore here this topic and propose an understandable soft taxonomy and a deep overview of the latest research concerning multimedia forgery detection. Then, an in-depth discussion and future directions for further investigation are provided. This work offers an opportunity for researchers to understand the current active field and to help them develop and evaluate their own image/video forensics approaches. \'a9 2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Data mining;  Digital forensics;  Image/video processing;  Multimedia tampering;  Pattern recognition;  Survey;  Taxonomy\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 158\
Paligu, F., Varol, C.\
56539995400;15128176200;\
Browser forensic investigations of whatsapp web utilizing indexeddb persistent storage\
(2020) Future Internet, 12 (11), art. no. 184, pp. 1-17. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85094630573&doi=10.3390%2ffi12110184&partnerID=40&md5=58340d22d5181c340b39ee7fd1c3655a\
\
DOI: 10.3390/fi12110184\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Science Department, Sam Houston State University, Huntsville, TX  77340, United States\
ABSTRACT: Digital Evidence is becoming an indispensable factor in most legal cases. However, technological advancements that lead to artifact complexity, are forcing investigators to create sophisticated connections between the findings and the suspects for admissibility of evidence in court. This paper scrutinizes whether IndexedDB, an emerging browser technology, can be a source of digital evidence to provide additional and correlating support for traditional investigation methods. It particularly focuses on the artifacts of the worldwide popular application, WhatsApp. A single case pretest\'96posttest quasi experiment is applied with WhatsApp Messenger and Web Application to populate and investigate artifacts in IndexedDB storage of Google Chrome. The findings are characterized and presented with their potential to be utilized in forensic investigation verifications. The storage locations of the artifacts are laid out and operations of extraction, conversion and presentation are systematized. Additionally, a proof of concept tool is developed for demonstration. The results show that WhatsApp Web IndexedDB storage can be employed for time frame analysis, demonstrating its value in evidence verification. \'a9 2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Persistent storage;  Web browser forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 159\
Kumawat, C., Pankajakshan, V.\
57201898896;6506890403;\
A robust JPEG compression detector for image forensics\
(2020) Signal Processing: Image Communication, 89, art. no. 116008, . Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85091239128&doi=10.1016%2fj.image.2020.116008&partnerID=40&md5=c8d52c1aab1e642950c7e088d8a0b459\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.image.2020.116008\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee, Roorkee, 247667, India\
ABSTRACT: Identification of JPEG compressed images saved in uncompressed format (JPEG-U images) is an important issue in forensic analysis. The state-of-the-art JPEG compression detection methods fail to identify such images when subjected to post-processing/anti-forensic operations. In this paper, we propose a novel JPEG compression detector which is robust to post-processing and anti-forensic operations. The detector is based on the difference in the discrete cosine transform (DCT) coefficient distributions in the ac subbands of uncompressed images and JPEG-U images. We show theoretically and empirically that the probability of subband DCT coefficients which lie in the interval (\uc0\u8722 0.5,0.5) is significantly different for a JPEG-U and the corresponding uncompressed image. This difference is exploited to derive a detection statistic which is compared with a threshold to detect JPEG-U images. The detector makes use of calibration, a technique used in steganalysis, to obtain the detection statistic. The experimental results show that the proposed detector significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art detectors, especially in the presence of post-processing and anti-forensic operations. \'a9 2020 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Calibration;  JPEG anti-forensics;  JPEG compression artifacts;  JPEG forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 160 **SELECTED** SID: 10\
Duan, R., Zhang, X.\
57220004221;57220005925;\
Research on computer forensics technology based on data recovery\
(2020) Journal of Physics: Conference Series, 1648 (3), art. no. 32025, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85096466780&doi=10.1088%2f1742-6596%2f1648%2f3%2f032025&partnerID=40&md5=cf0d318a20283f51675d3860aca0ac74\
\
DOI: 10.1088/1742-6596/1648/3/032025\
AFFILIATIONS: Yunnan College of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Language651700, China; \
Songming County Public Security Bureau651700, China\
ABSTRACT: With the rapid development of information technology, fundamental changes have taken place in the way people work. However, computer crime has also become the main type of cases in the Internet era. Therefore, computer forensics technology has become an important research content of computer crime evidence collection. Firstly, this paper analyzes the relationship between computer forensics and data recovery. Then, this paper analyzes the steps of computer forensics. Finally, this paper analyzes the application of anti-forensics technology and computer forensics technology. \'a9 Content from this work may be used under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 licence.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer Crime;  Computer Forensics Technology;  Data Recovery\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 161\
Paccagnella, R., Liao, K., Tian, D., Bates, A.\
57209243446;57209413068;56417120400;55498417300;\
Logging to the Danger Zone: Race Condition Attacks and Defenses on System Audit Frameworks\
(2020) Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pp. 1551-1565. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85096179564&doi=10.1145%2f3372297.3417862&partnerID=40&md5=f9267e602f78053a9e34af66592ffc39\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3372297.3417862\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, United States; \
Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, United States\
ABSTRACT: For system logs to aid in security investigations, they must be beyond the reach of the adversary. Unfortunately, attackers that have escalated privilege on a host are typically able to delete and modify log events at will. In response to this threat, a variety of secure logging systems have appeared over the years that attempt to provide tamper-resistance (e.g., write once read many drives, remote storage servers) or tamper-evidence (e.g., cryptographic proofs) for system logs. These solutions expose an interface through which events are committed to a secure log, at which point they enjoy protection from future tampering. However, all proposals to date have relied on the assumption that an event's occurrence is concomitant with its commitment to the secured log. In this work, we challenge this assumption by presenting and validating a race condition attack on the integrity of audit frameworks. Our attack exploits the intrinsically asynchronous nature of I/O and IPC activity, demonstrating that an attacker can snatch events about their intrusion out of message buffers after they have occurred but before they are committed to the log, thus bypassing existing protections. We present a first step towards defending against our attack by introducing KennyLoggings, the first kernel- based tamper-evident logging system that satisfies the synchronous integrity property, meaning that it guarantees tamper-evidence of events upon their occurrence. We implement KennyLoggings on top of the Linux kernel and show that it imposes between 8% and 11% overhead on log-intensive application workloads. \'a9 2020 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: digital forensics;  forward security;  Linux kernel;  operating systems;  race conditions;  system auditing;  tamper-evident logs\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 162\
Derafshkavian, P., Huneault-Leblanc, S., Renault-Crispo, S., Marwaha, A., Mokhov, S.A., Paquet, J.\
57221599765;57221609112;57221602679;57221597042;24338925500;23005917000;\
Toward Scalable Demand-Driven JSON-to-Forensic Lucid Encoder in GIPSY\
(2020) 2020 International Symposium on Networks, Computers and Communications, ISNCC 2020, art. no. 9297224, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85099555507&doi=10.1109%2fISNCC49221.2020.9297224&partnerID=40&md5=e7abb9aeea0bed4ffc48636915c048cc\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISNCC49221.2020.9297224\
ABSTRACT: The objective of this paper is to describe the research performed on JSON-formatted files demand-driven formalization to Forensic Lucid, a forensic case specification and modeling language. JSON is a popular format for representing data transfers between many popular web services today on the Internet; as a result a lot of potential digital evidence may be available in this format. Our proposed solution relies on the General Intensional Programming System's (GIPSY) multi-tier architecture to implement problem-specific (PS) generator and worker tiers. The JSONCONVERTERDGT is the PS demand generator for parsing JSON files. It will listen for JSON parser demands from the user. It will then get the demand, which contains the JSON data structure, the type of parser required (generic vs. concrete, such as social media Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, etc.) and pass this information to the demand store. Our worker in the project is included in the class JSONCONVERTERDWT. It collects the JSON demands from the store, parses the arguments received from the generator, gets the JSON file that needs to be parsed, calls the appropriate concrete parser (if available), and creates a JAVA object that has the JSON structure with all its elements. It then sends this object as a result via the store to the generator, which will create the Forensic Lucid IPL file. We formally specify requirements and design specifications in part, and some implementation details in this work. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Encoding;  Forensic Lucid;  Formalization;  GIPSY;  JSON\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 163\
Zeng, C., Zhu, D., Wang, Z., Wang, Z., Zhao, N., He, L.\
57200673422;57218384683;57189328727;57218384968;57203777803;57218385687;\
An end-to-end deep source recording device identification system for Web media forensics\
(2020) International Journal of Web Information Systems, 16 (4), pp. 413-425. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85089031637&doi=10.1108%2fIJWIS-06-2020-0038&partnerID=40&md5=46294ef9e6e26f86e0559e6fc58a1794\
\
DOI: 10.1108/IJWIS-06-2020-0038\
AFFILIATIONS: Hubei Key Laboratory for High-efficiency Utilization of Solar Energy and Operation Control of Energy Storage System, Hubei University of Technology, Wuhan, China; \
School of Educational Information Technology/Hubei Research Center for Educational Informationization, Central China Normal University, Wuhan, China; \
Department of Urology, China Resources and WISCO General Hospital, Wuhan, China\
ABSTRACT: Purpose: Most source recording device identification models for Web media forensics are based on a single feature to complete the identification task and often have the disadvantages of long time and poor accuracy. The purpose of this paper is to propose a new method for end-to-end network source identification of multi-feature fusion devices. Design/methodology/approach: This paper proposes an efficient multi-feature fusion source recording device identification method based on end-to-end and attention mechanism, so as to achieve efficient and convenient identification of recording devices of Web media forensics. Findings: The authors conducted sufficient experiments to prove the effectiveness of the models that they have proposed. The experiments show that the end-to-end system is improved by 7.1% compared to the baseline i-vector system, compared to the authors\'92 previous system, the accuracy is improved by 0.4%, and the training time is reduced by 50%. Research limitations/implications: With the development of Web media forensics and internet technology, the use of Web media as evidence is increasing. Among them, it is particularly important to study the authenticity and accuracy of Web media audio. Originality/value: This paper aims to promote the development of source recording device identification and provide effective technology for Web media forensics and judicial record evidence that need to apply device source identification technology. \'a9 2020, Emerald Publishing Limited.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Attention;  Center loss;  End-to-end;  Fusion features;  Source recording device identification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 164\
Bozkurt, I., Ulutas, G.\
57203976256;25652521200;\
The Localization of Deleted Frames in the Forged Videos [Sahte Videolarda Silinen Cerceve Konumu Tespiti]\
(2020) 2020 28th Signal Processing and Communications Applications Conference, SIU 2020 - Proceedings, art. no. 9302081, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85100304929&doi=10.1109%2fSIU49456.2020.9302081&partnerID=40&md5=8db2d02ccf874160e958c6e7b589cd26\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SIU49456.2020.9302081\
AFFILIATIONS: Yazilim M\'fchendisli\uc0\u487 i B\'f6l\'fcm\'fc, Karadeniz Teknik \'dcniversitesi, Trabzon, Turkey\
ABSTRACT: The manipulation processes made by deleting frames on videos are the fastest and laborless method of video forgery. The process of misleading people is done by cutting the frames of the scene or object to be hidden from the related video. With this study, designing a fast-running algorithm to detect in which location the frame deletion forgery is aimed for localization the forgery location. The test of the algorithm's resistance against different compression formats and different compression qualities was carried out. Frame deletion forgeries were performed in random sizes and locations on the videos obtained from SULFA and TRACE LIBRARY databases which used frequently in the literature. Forgery location was detected with 100% accuracy at uncompressed videos. In MPEG4 and H264 compressed videos, accuracies are %85 and %90 respectively. Average processing time is 0.0007 second for frame. Experimental results show that the proposed method can detect the forgery location with high accuracy. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Forensic;  Frame Deletion..;  Pasive Video Forgery\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 165\
Maier, A., Lorch, B., Riess, C.\
57219784379;57038716300;23393831200;\
Toward Reliable Models for Authenticating Multimedia Content: Detecting Resampling Artifacts with Bayesian Neural Networks\
(2020) Proceedings - International Conference on Image Processing, ICIP, 2020-October, art. no. 9191121, pp. 1251-1255. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85098630918&doi=10.1109%2fICIP40778.2020.9191121&partnerID=40&md5=e586621a6c3d96b3bf7a3ef02b8fc55d\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICIP40778.2020.9191121\
AFFILIATIONS: Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-N\'fcrnberg, It Security Infrastructures Lab, Germany\
ABSTRACT: In multimedia forensics, learning-based methods provide state-of the-art performance in determining origin and authenticity of images and videos. However, most existing methods are challenged by out-of-distribution data, i.e., with characteristics that are not covered in the training set. This makes it difficult to know when to trust a model, particularly for practitioners with limited technical background.In this work, we make a first step toward redesigning forensic algorithms with a strong focus on reliability. To this end, we propose to use Bayesian neural networks (BNN), which combine the power of deep neural networks with the rigorous probabilistic formulation of a Bayesian framework. Instead of providing a point estimate like standard neural networks, BNNs provide distributions that express both the estimate and also an uncertainty range.We demonstrate the usefulness of this framework on a classical forensic task: resampling detection. The BNN yields state-of-the-art detection performance, plus excellent capabilities for detecting out-of-distribution samples. This is demonstrated for three pathologic issues in resampling detection, namely unseen resampling factors, unseen JPEG compression, and unseen resampling algorithms. We hope that this proposal spurs further research toward reliability in multimedia forensics. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Bayesian neural networks;  digital image forensics;  reliability;  resampling detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 166\
Wang, P., Liu, F., Yang, C.\
56230320600;8856731300;23502554000;\
Thresholding binary coding for image forensics of weak sharpening\
(2020) Signal Processing: Image Communication, 88, art. no. 115956, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85088384215&doi=10.1016%2fj.image.2020.115956&partnerID=40&md5=db3405344ea4987cec6f76cdf62da0bf\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.image.2020.115956\
AFFILIATIONS: Zhengzhou Science and Technology Institute, Zhengzhou, 450001, China\
ABSTRACT: Image forensics of sharpening has aroused the great interest of researchers in recent decades. The state-of-the-art techniques have achieved high accuracies of strong sharpening detection, while it remains a challenge to detect weak sharpening. This paper proposes an algorithm based on thresholding binary coding for image sharpening detection. The overshoot artifact introduced by sharpening enlarges the difference between the local maximum and minimum of both image pixels and unsharp mask elements, based on which the threshold local binary pattern operator is applied to capture the trace of sharpening. Then the patterns are coded according to the rotation symmetry invariance and the texture type. Features are extracted from the statistical distribution of the coded patterns and fed to the classifier for sharpening detection. In practice, two classifiers are constructed for the lightweight and offline applications respectively, one is a single Fisher linear discriminant (FLD) with 182 features, and the other is an ensemble classifier (EC) with 5460 features. The experimental results on BOSS, NRCS and RAISE datasets show that for weak sharpening detection, the FLD outperforms the CNN and SVMs with EPTC, EPBC, and LBP features, and using EC with TBCs features further improves the performance, which obtains better results than ECs with TLBP and SRM features. Besides, the proposed algorithm is robust to post-JPEG compression and noise addition and could differentiate sharpening from other manipulations. \'a9 2020 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Image forensics;  Texture pattern mapping;  Thresholding binary coding;  Unsharp mask;  Weak sharpening\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 167\
Shashidhar, T.M., Ramesh, K.B.\
57196190732;57210711669;\
Novel framework for optimized digital forensic for mitigating complex image attacks\
(2020) International Journal of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 10 (5), pp. 5198-5207. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85087143792&doi=10.11591%2fIJECE.V10I5.PP5198-5207&partnerID=40&md5=346cf1ea9ba697643f7e6f2e84188557\
\
DOI: 10.11591/IJECE.V10I5.PP5198-5207\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, AMC Engineering College, India; \
Department of Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering, RV College of Engineering, India\
ABSTRACT: Digital Image Forensic is significantly becoming popular owing to the increasing usage of the images as a media of information propagation. However, owing to the presence of various image editing tools and software, there is also an increasing threat to image content security. Reviewing the existing approaches to identify the traces or artifacts states that there is a large scope of optimization to be implemented to enhance the processing further. Therefore, this paper presents a novel framework that performs cost-effective optimization of digital forensic technique with an idea of accurately localizing the area of tampering as well as offers a capability to mitigate the attacks of various forms. The study outcome shows that the proposed system offers better outcomes in contrast to the existing system to a significant scale to prove that minor novelty in design attributes could induce better improvement with respect to accuracy as well as resilience toward all potential image threats. \'a9 2020 Institute of Advanced Engineering and Science. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Image attacks;  Image Forensic;  Image forgery;  Optimization;  Tampering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 168\
Liao, Y., Zhuang, W., Huang, L., Liu, N.\
57227984000;57228354300;56566977100;55040727400;\
Improve the Robustness of Deep Learning Models against Adversarial Attacks in Judicial Field\
(2020) Proceedings - 8th International Conference on Digital Home, ICDH 2020, art. no. 9457269, pp. 197-202. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85113314498&doi=10.1109%2fICDH51081.2020.00041&partnerID=40&md5=97c968839e7f5403074965a0bac075a6\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICDH51081.2020.00041\
AFFILIATIONS: Sun Yat-sen University, School of Data and Computer Science, China; \
Guangdong Key Laboratory of Information Security Technology, China\
ABSTRACT: With the rapid development of deep neural networks (DNNs), they have been applied in various domains including crowd counting, object detection and digital forensic. Consequently, DNN-based forensic process plays an essential role in judicial field, which will simplify the trial procedure in real world as well as cut down the workload of criminal case judgment. Apart from manipulating the visual forensic evidence (i.e., digital images) by existing editing softwares, malicious adversarial attacks can also pose a series threat for DNN-based trial system. In general, by adding some imperceptible perturbations to generate the adversarial forensic evidence, DNN-based trial system may output totally wrong results. To this end, we propose an adversarial fine-tuned training (AFT) method to improve the robustness of deep learning models for defensing against black-box adversarial attacks in judicial process (e.g. digital forensic). Concretely, we utilize both query-based attackers and transfer-based enemies to generate a set of adversarial examples at first, and then mix up both clean and perturbed data as training set to specific fine-tuned layers of models. Base on this training manner, the generated models not only can improve the robustness to resist adversarial examples, but also reduce the computational cost since only parts of parameters need to be retrained. Extensive experiments on both two pre-trained vanilla models and three defensive models demonstrate the efficacy of our proposed method to tackle the adversarial attacks and potential value in digital court system. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: adversarial attack;  deep learning;  digital forensic;  judicial;  robustness;  trial\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 169\
Atlam, H.F., El-Din Hemdan, E., Alenezi, A., Alassafi, M.O., Wills, G.B.\
57194943646;57190733374;55786432500;57191962760;35609513100;\
Internet of Things Forensics: A Review\
(2020) Internet of Things (Netherlands), 11, art. no. 100220, . Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85108009181&doi=10.1016%2fj.iot.2020.100220&partnerID=40&md5=7f4636b35cade402be6c9554071c8a9d\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.iot.2020.100220\
AFFILIATIONS: Electronic and Computer Science Dept., University of Southampton, Southampton, United Kingdom; \
Computer Science and Engineering Dept., Faculty of Electronic Engineering, Menoufia University, Menoufia, Egypt; \
Department of Information Technology, Faculty of Computing and IT, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia\
ABSTRACT: The rapid growth of Internet of Things (IoT) devices brings countless benefits, but it also brings new security and forensics challenges. The IoT system with billions of devices generates a huge amount of evidence which causes big challenges to digital investigators and practitioners who are required to interact with IoT devices to investigate cybercrimes in a forensically sound and timely fashion. These challenges create more opportunities for cybercrimes to attack various IoT application and services resulting in a direct impact on IoT users. As the IoT has incorporated in most aspects of our life, cybercrimes will literally threaten human life, hence, IoT forensics is required to investigate and mitigate against such attacks. Therefore, this paper provides a detailed review of IoT forensics. It started by providing a comprehensive discussion of IoT security involving the need for security by design and security challenges of the IoT system. Then, a review of IoT forensics is presented by highlighting the need for Artificial Intelligence (AI) in IoT forensics, state-of-the-art research and recent studies, opportunities and key requirements for a successful IoT forensics. Challenges and suggested solutions of IoT forensics are also discussed. Finally, a discussion of open research directions of IoT forensics is presented. \'a9 2020 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cybercrime;  Digital Forensics;  Internet of Things;  Internet of Things Forensics;  Security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 170\
Orellano-Benancio, L., Mu\'f1oz-Canales, R., Humpire-Molina, D., Huaman\'ed, E.L.\
57219244472;57219245089;57219242780;57210377414;\
Audio enhancement and application of digital filters for speech intelligibility in forensic digital analysis expert work (Computer forensics)\
(2020) International Journal of Emerging Trends in Engineering Research, 8 (9), art. no. 186, pp. 6045-6050. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85091864739&doi=10.30534%2fijeter%2f2020%2f186892020&partnerID=40&md5=b6e43f58d9a68479b5920e6c3c15093e\
\
DOI: 10.30534/ijeter/2020/186892020\
AFFILIATIONS: Oficina de Peritajes del Ministerio P\'fablico, Peru; \
Image Processing Research Laboratory (INTI-Lab), Universidad de Ciencias y Humanidades, Lima, Peru\
ABSTRACT: When clarifying the prosecution of a criminal act, the signs or evidence are found in recordings of digital audio files as questionable evidence, which corresponds to the conversations involved. Therefore, it is necessary to take a sample of the voice of the accused as genuine sample for the \'93Forensic Expert Work of Voice Homologation\'94 based on voice comparison. Audio authentication, manipulation, edition, transcription or enhancement, among other activities, are part of this forensic expert work. This research focuses on the forensic expert analysis the \'93Forensic Work of Audio Enhancement\'94 developed in the Forensic Digital Analysis Laboratory of the Bureau of Forensic Expert Analysis of the Prosecution Authority. \'a9 2020, World Academy of Research in Science and Engineering. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Audio enhancement;  Digital forensics;  Filters;  Forensic computing;  Frequency;  Signal processing\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 171\
Koroniotis, N., Moustafa, N., Sitnikova, E.\
57202213787;56816761200;55757859300;\
A new network forensic framework based on deep learning for Internet of Things networks: A particle deep framework\
(2020) Future Generation Computer Systems, 110, pp. 91-106. Cited 21 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85083343778&doi=10.1016%2fj.future.2020.03.042&partnerID=40&md5=4b5c63b08754a52241accf22dac88c7c\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.future.2020.03.042\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Engineering and Information Technology, UNSW Canberra Cyber, University of New South Wales Canberra, Australia\
ABSTRACT: With the prevalence of Internet of Things (IoT) systems, inconspicuous everyday household devices are connected to the Internet, providing automation and real-time services to their users. In spite of their light-weight design and low power, their vulnerabilities often give rise to cyber risks that harm their operations over network systems. One of the key challenges of securing IoT networks is tracing sources of cyber-attack events, along with obfuscating and encrypting network traffic. This study proposes a new network forensics framework, called a Particle Deep Framework (PDF), which describes the digital investigation phases for identifying and tracing attack behaviors in IoT networks. The proposed framework includes three new functions: (1) extracting network data flows and verifying their integrity to deal with encrypted networks; (2) utilizing a Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) algorithm to automatically adapt parameters of deep learning; and (3) developing a Deep Neural Network (DNN) based on the PSO algorithm to discover and trace abnormal events from IoT network of smart homes. The proposed PDF is evaluated using the Bot-IoT and UNSW_NB15 datasets and compared with various deep learning techniques. Experimental results reveal a high performance of the proposed framework for discovering and tracing cyber-attack events compared with the other techniques. \'a9 2020 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Attack tracing;  Deep learning;  Network forensics;  Particle swarm optimization;  Threat detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 172\
Brown, H.M., McDaniel, T.J., Fedick, P.W., Mulligan, C.C.\
55967063500;57219900659;55855088100;35966726500;\
The current role of mass spectrometry in forensics and future prospects\
(2020) Analytical Methods, 12 (32), pp. 3974-3997. Cited 11 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85095978646&doi=10.1039%2fd0ay01113d&partnerID=40&md5=4f0de1436c56b41081e7169739448f10\
\
DOI: 10.1039/d0ay01113d\
AFFILIATIONS: Chemistry Division, Research Department, Naval Air Warfare Center, Weapons Division (NAWCWD), United States Navy Naval Air Systems Command (NAVAIR), China Lake, CA  93555, United States; \
Department of Chemistry, Illinois State University, Normal, IL  61790-4160, United States\
ABSTRACT: Mass spectrometry (MS) techniques are highly prevalent in crime laboratories, particularly those coupled to chromatographic separations like gas chromatography (GC) and liquid chromatography (LC). These methods are considered "gold standard"analytical techniques for forensic analysis and have been extensively validated for producing prosecutorial evidentiary data. However, factors such as growing evidence backlogs and problematic evidence types (e.g., novel psychoactive substance (NPS) classes) have exposed limitations of these stalwart techniques. This critical review serves to delineate the current role of MS methods across the broad sub-disciplines of forensic science, providing insight on how governmental steering committees guide their implementation. Novel, developing techniques that seek to broaden applicability and enhance performance will also be highlighted, from unique modifications to traditional hyphenated MS methods to the newer "ambient"MS techniques that show promise for forensic analysis, but need further validation before incorporation into routine forensic workflows. This review also expounds on how recent improvements to MS instrumental design, scan modes, and data processing could cause a paradigm shift in how the future forensic practitioner collects and processes target evidence. \'a9 The Royal Society of Chemistry.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 173\
Du, X., Hargreaves, C., Sheppard, J., Anda, F., Sayakkara, A., Le-Khac, N.-A., Scanlon, M.\
57193685507;24512275200;57204021358;57203552152;36722463500;16175564100;52264702800;\
SoK: Exploring the state of the art and the future potential of artificial intelligence in digital forensic investigation\
(2020) PervasiveHealth: Pervasive Computing Technologies for Healthcare, . Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85117543481&doi=10.1145%2f3407023.3407068&partnerID=40&md5=b2b31faea2dbb37cf3f616a1ba67a9d0\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3407023.3407068\
AFFILIATIONS: University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland; \
University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom; \
Waterford Institute of Technology, Ireland\
ABSTRACT: Multi-year digital forensic backlogs have become commonplace in law enforcement agencies throughout the globe. Digital forensic investigators are overloaded with the volume of cases requiring their expertise compounded by the volume of data to be processed. Artificial intelligence is often seen as the solution to many big data problems. This paper summarises existing artificial intelligence based tools and approaches in digital forensics. Automated evidence processing leveraging artificial intelligence based techniques shows great promise in expediting the digital forensic analysis process while increasing case processing capacities. For each application of artificial intelligence highlighted, a number of current challenges and future potential impact is discussed. \'a9 2020 Owner/Author.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Deep learning;  Digital forensics;  Machine learning\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 174\
Frick, R.A., Liu, H., Steinebach, M.\
57218822170;7409750058;6602600975;\
Detecting double compression and splicing using benfords first digit law\
(2020) PervasiveHealth: Pervasive Computing Technologies for Healthcare, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85117542549&doi=10.1145%2f3407023.3409200&partnerID=40&md5=ab132404705b2296ae8352fadcfc4306\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3407023.3409200\
AFFILIATIONS: Fraunhofer Institute for Secure Information Technology SIT, Darmstadt, Germany\
ABSTRACT: Detecting image forgeries in JPEG encoded images has been a research topic in the field of media forensics for a long time. Until today, it still holds a high importance as tools to create convincing manipulations of images have become more and more accessible to the public, which in return might be used to e.g. generate fake news. In this paper, a passive forensic detection framework to detect image manipulations is proposed based on compression artefacts and Benfords First Digit Law. It incorporates a supervised approach to reconstruct the compression history as well as provides an un-supervised detection approach to detect double compression for unknown quantization tables. The implemented algorithms were able to achieve high AUC values when classifying high quality images exceeding similar state-of-the-art methods. \'a9 2020 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Benfords first digit law;  Double compression;  Image forensics;  JPEG;  Passive method\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 175\
Ahmed, F., Khelifi, F., Lawgaly, A., Bouridane, A.\
57208532537;9239864000;56026737200;6701348149;\
Temporal Image Forensic Analysis for Picture Dating with Deep Learning\
(2020) Proceedings - 2020 International Conference on Computing, Electronics and Communications Engineering, iCCECE 2020, art. no. 9231160, pp. 109-114. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85096955307&doi=10.1109%2fiCCECE49321.2020.9231160&partnerID=40&md5=ba8fbb9307955c2ced26272589c0c758\
\
DOI: 10.1109/iCCECE49321.2020.9231160\
AFFILIATIONS: Northumbria University, Department of Computer and Information Sciences, Newcastle upon Tyne, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Estimating the acquisition date of digital photographs is crucial in image forensics. The task of dating images by processing their contents should be reasonably accurate as this can be used in court to resolve high profile cases. The goal of temporal forensics analysis is to find out the links in time between two or more pieces of evidence. In this paper, the problem of picture dating is addressed from a machine learning perspective, precisely, by adopting a deep learning approach for the first time in temporal image forensics. In this work, the acquisition time of digital images is estimated in such a way that the analyst can identify the timeline of unknown digital photographs given a set of pictures from the same source whose time ordering is known. By applying Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), namely the AlexNet and GoogLeNet architectures in both feature extraction and transfer learning modes, results have shown that the networks can successfully learn the temporal changes in the content of the digital pictures that are acquired from the same source. Interestingly, although images are divided into non-overlapping blocks in order to increase the number of training samples and feed CNNs, the obtained estimation accuracy has been from 80% to 88%. This suggests that the temporal changes in image contents, modelled by CNNs, are not dependent on block location. This has been demonstrated on a new database called 'Northumbria Temporal Image Forensics' (NTIF) database which has been made publicly available for researchers in image forensics. NTIF is the first public database that captures a large number of images at different timeslots on a regular basis using 10 different digital cameras. This will serve the research community as a solid ground for research on picture dating and other image forensics applications. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Deep Learning;  Northumbria Temporal Image Forensics (NTIF) database and Convolutional Neural Network;  Picture Dating;  Temporal Forensic Analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 176\
Sklavos, N., Francese, S.\
55957530500;15029954900;\
MULTI-modal Imaging of FOREnsic SciEnce Evidence: MULTI-FORESEE Project\
(2020) Proceedings - Euromicro Conference on Digital System Design, DSD 2020, art. no. 9217796, pp. 386-392. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85096351844&doi=10.1109%2fDSD51259.2020.00068&partnerID=40&md5=90924492da6499b5a846d57b86421220\
\
DOI: 10.1109/DSD51259.2020.00068\
AFFILIATIONS: (CEID) Univeristy of Patras, Scytale Group, Computer Engineering Informatics Department, Patra, Greece; \
Sheffield Hallam University, Centre for Mass Spectrometry Imaging, Biomolecular Science Research Centre, Sheffield, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: In Digital Forensics science, face detection and recognition techniques are nowadays tightly connected. Investigators need accurate results delivered quickly for their official reports, in order to solve a case. Hardware implementation of face detection and recognition systems have shown to be very efficient with high recognition rate and short processing time. FPGAs are used for such implementations, because of the parallelism and the speed they can offer. In this work, we present the overview and the objectives of the MULTI-FORESEE COST project in this area. We also present alternative face detection FPGA implementations, and present face recognition techniques, for hardware integration. Finally, we compare these implementations with respect to the FPGA resources which are currently used. Efficient and flexible solutions are proposed in relation to computing power, performance, and allocated resources. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: biometrics;  cyber security;  face recognition;  Forensics;  FPGAs;  hardware security;  MULTI-FORESEE\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 177\
Bhandari, S., Jusas, V.\
57194592344;15127341300;\
The Phases Based Approach for Regeneration of Timeline in Digital Forensics\
(2020) INISTA 2020 - 2020 International Conference on INnovations in Intelligent SysTems and Applications, Proceedings, art. no. 9194649, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85092000706&doi=10.1109%2fINISTA49547.2020.9194649&partnerID=40&md5=191ade39e6b368e8a3b9d73b70e952ab\
\
DOI: 10.1109/INISTA49547.2020.9194649\
AFFILIATIONS: Kaunas University of Technology, Department of Software Engineering, Kaunas, Lithuania; \
Kaunas University of Technology, Department of Software Engineering, Kaunas, Lithuania\
ABSTRACT: The field of digital forensics has developed to enable security experts to look at proof from the expanding plenty of computerized gadgets to help figure out what people may have done before. In this paper, we present a methodology based on the abstraction of information provided about the timeline of events and artefacts at four different levels such as event high level, event low level, artefact high level and artefact low level for the enhancement of timeline analysis. In our approach, two command-based digital forensics tools are also used such as log2timeline and psort to collect data from various files systems found on the typical computer for implementing the developed methodology. From results, it is observed that developed methodology can enhance the timeline of events and artefacts by increasing the visualization of the timeline, realistic of data and minimize the time utilized for collection and understanding of digital evidence from digital devices. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Artefacts;  Digital Evidence and Visualization;  Digital Forensics;  Events;  Timeline\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 178\
Jeong, J., Kim, D., Lee, B., Son, Y.\
57188974100;57216433241;57218923967;52364782100;\
Design and implementation of a digital evidence management model based on hyperledger fabric\
(2020) Journal of Information Processing Systems, 16 (4), pp. 760-773. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85090787811&doi=10.3745%2fJIPS.04.0178&partnerID=40&md5=0e77559e3de9b7e03d3fb18c600e5ad6\
\
DOI: 10.3745/JIPS.04.0178\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering, Kongju National University, Cheonan, South Korea; \
Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering, Dongguk University, Seoul, South Korea; \
Dept. of Police Science, Seoul Digital University, Seoul, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: When a crime occurs, the information necessary for solving the case, and various pieces of the evidence needed to prove the crime are collected from the crime scene. The tangible residues collected through scientific methods at the crime scene become evidence at trial and a clue to prove the facts directly against the offense of the suspect. Therefore, the scientific investigation and forensic handling for securing objective forensic in crime investigation is increasingly important. Today, digital systems, such as smartphones, CCTVs, black boxes, etc. are increasingly used as criminal information investigation clues, and digital forensic is becoming a decisive factor in investigation and trial. However, the systems have the risk that digital forensic may be damaged or manipulated by malicious insiders in the existing centralized management systems based on client/server structure. In this paper, we design and implement a blockchain based digital forensic management model using Hyperledger Fabric and Docker to guarantee the reliability and integrity of digital forensic. The proposed digital evidence management model allows only authorized participants in a distributed environment without a central management agency access the network to share and manage potential crime data. Therefore, it could be relatively safe from malicious internal attackers compared to the existing client/server model. \'a9 Korea Information Processing Society.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Blockchain;  Digital evidence management;  Digital forensic;  Hyperledger fabric;  Smart contract\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 179\
Chen, Y., Wang, Z., Wang, Z.J., Kang, X.\
57195132102;37071414300;11241026700;7102354750;\
Automated Design of Neural Network Architectures with Reinforcement Learning for Detection of Global Manipulations\
(2020) IEEE Journal on Selected Topics in Signal Processing, 14 (5), art. no. 9103245, pp. 997-1011. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85090470462&doi=10.1109%2fJSTSP.2020.2998401&partnerID=40&md5=06255eb7e6268a236a1ad31123b73d9d\
\
DOI: 10.1109/JSTSP.2020.2998401\
AFFILIATIONS: Guangdong Key Laboratory of Information Security, School of Data and Computer Science, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China; \
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC  V6T 1Z4, Canada\
ABSTRACT: Deep Convolutional Neural Networks (DCNNs) have been widely used in detection of global manipulations. However, designing effective DCNNs for specific image forensics tasks generally requires domain knowledge and experience gained from abundant experiments, which is time-consuming and labor-expensive. Approaches of automated network designing have been proposed for image classification tasks which are image-content focused, however they may not be suitable to image forensics tasks which rely on identifying subtle traces left by certain image operations. In this paper, we make the first attempt to automate the neural network architecture design for detection of global manipulations. The process of constructing a network is modeled as sequentially selecting optimal architecture modules to generate high-performing CNNs for specific forensic tasks through reinforcement learning. The module-based search space is proposed to make the designing process efficient. Advanced connection patterns (e.g., dense connectivity), which were shown preferred for global manipulation detections, are included in the modules to improve the representational power of the network. Experimental results show that the proposed approach can adaptively construct effective CNN architectures for two common forensic tasks, including multi-purpose forensics and the processing history detection. The auto-designed networks can outperform the state-of-the-art manually designed networks. \'a9 2007-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: auto-designed network architecture;  convolutional neural network;  Global manipulation detection;  module-based QNN;  reinforcement learning\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 180\
Liao, X., Li, K., Zhu, X., Liu, K.J.R.\
26665606800;57191472573;36109683800;7404200118;\
Robust Detection of Image Operator Chain with Two-Stream Convolutional Neural Network\
(2020) IEEE Journal on Selected Topics in Signal Processing, 14 (5), art. no. 9116978, pp. 955-968. Cited 42 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85090459996&doi=10.1109%2fJSTSP.2020.3002391&partnerID=40&md5=f95411fcfcebed1352bf31f7a0e09757\
\
DOI: 10.1109/JSTSP.2020.3002391\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering, Hunan University, Changsha, 410082, China; \
Computer Science and Electronic Engineering, Hunan University, Changsha, 410082, China; \
School of Electrical and Information Engineering, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, China; \
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Maryland, College Park, MD  20742, United States\
ABSTRACT: Many forensic techniques have recently been developed to determine whether an image has undergone a specific manipulation operation. When multiple consecutive operations are applied to images, forensic analysts not only need to identify the existence of each manipulation operation, but also to distinguish the order of the involved operations. However, image operator chain detection is still a challenging problem. In this paper, an order forensics framework for detecting image operator chain based on convolutional neural network (CNN) is presented. Two-stream CNN architecture is designed to capture both tampering artifact evidence and local noise residual evidence. Specifically, the new CNN-based method is proposed for forensically detecting a chain made of two image operators, which could automatically learn manipulation detection features directly from image data. Further, we empirically investigate the robustness of our proposed method in two practical scenarios: forensic investigators have no access to the operating parameters, and manipulations are applied to a JPEG compressed image. Experimental results show that the proposed framework not only obtains significant detection performance but also can distinguish the order in some cases that previous works were unable to identify. \'a9 2007-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: convolutional neural network;  Image forensics;  image operator chain;  order detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 181\
Yang, P., Baracchi, D., Iuliani, M., Shullani, D., Ni, R., Zhao, Y., Piva, A.\
57193388775;57202989097;56685528500;57126389800;55632437300;35304414700;7005293392;\
Efficient Video Integrity Analysis through Container Characterization\
(2020) IEEE Journal on Selected Topics in Signal Processing, 14 (5), art. no. 9136916, pp. 947-954. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85089380605&doi=10.1109%2fJSTSP.2020.3008088&partnerID=40&md5=514ea352109204f37e9614c92de06447\
\
DOI: 10.1109/JSTSP.2020.3008088\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Information Science, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, 100044, China; \
Department of Information Engineering, University of Florence, Florence, Italy; \
Beijing Key Laboratory of Advanced Information Science and Network Technology, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, 100044, China; \
FORLAB, Multimedia Forensics Laboratory, PIN Scrl, Prato, 59100, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Most video forensic techniques look for traces within the data stream that are, however, mostly ineffective when dealing with strongly compressed or low resolution videos. Recent research highlighted that useful forensic traces are also left in the video container structure, thus offering the opportunity to understand the life-cycle of a video file without looking at the media stream itself. In this article we introduce a container-based method to identify the software used to perform a video manipulation and, in most cases, the operating system of the source device. As opposed to the state of the art, the proposed method is both efficient and effective and can also provide a simple explanation for its decisions. This is achieved by using a decision-tree-based classifier applied to a vectorial representation of the video container structure. We conducted an extensive validation on a dataset of 7000 video files including both software manipulated contents (ffmpeg, Exiftool, Adobe Premiere, Avidemux, and Kdenlive), and videos exchanged through social media platforms (Facebook, TikTok, Weibo and YouTube). This dataset has been made available to the research community. The proposed method achieves an accuracy of 97.6% in distinguishing pristine from tampered videos and classifying the editing software, even when the video is cut without re-encoding or when it is downscaled to the size of a thumbnail. Furthermore, it is capable of correctly identifying the operating system of the source device for most of the tampered videos. \'a9 2007-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: authentication;  decision trees;  integrity;  machine learning;  social media;  video container;  Video forensics;  video tampering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 182\
Malegori, C., Alladio, E., Oliveri, P., Manis, C., Vincenti, M., Garofano, P., Barni, F., Berti, A.\
55968007400;56593161600;24341831500;57190805848;7006721679;6507725361;15730183100;56531588200;\
Identification of invisible biological traces in forensic evidences by hyperspectral NIR imaging combined with chemometrics\
(2020) Talanta, 215, art. no. 120911, . Cited 14 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85081955764&doi=10.1016%2fj.talanta.2020.120911&partnerID=40&md5=a8d10a5a3ea46e16e344c33734e6a309\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.talanta.2020.120911\
AFFILIATIONS: Dipartimento di Farmacia (DIFAR), Universit\'e0 degli Studi di Genova, Genova, Italy; \
Dipartimento di Chimica, Universit\'e0 degli Studi di Torino, Torino, Italy; \
Reparto Carabinieri Investigazioni Scientifiche, Sezione di Biologia, Roma, Italy; \
Centro Regionale Antidoping e di Tossicologia \'93A. Bertinaria\'94, Laboratorio di Genetica Forense, Orbassano, Italy\
ABSTRACT: The importance of detecting minute biological traces in forensic evidences feeds the continuous interest towards the development of new dedicated technologies both sensitive and reliable. The present study describes the opportunity to combine chemical properties derived from NIR signals with spatial features typical of RGB images by means of hyperspectral imaging (HSI). An analytical procedure based on HSI data collection and their multivariate processing followed by normalized difference images (NDI) is proposed as a screening method to highlight otherwise invisible traces of biological fluids on different supports in view of their collection for DNA analysis. The pattern features identified inside the NDI provided insight into the nature of the biological trace, on the basis of the wavelength at which the stain is highlighted and irrespective of the support on which the stain is deposited. In particular, the procedure allowed to detect and distinguish traces (i.e., 10 and 20 
\f3 \uc0\u956 
\f0 L volumes) of dehydrated blood, urine, and semen on glass, paper, cotton, denim and polyblend fabric. Beside the simulated specimens used to develop and test the protocol, its robustness was demonstrated also on real and unknown validation samples, confirming its feasibility in some real case studies. An interesting evolution of the proposed strategy is to lay the scientific foundations for the development of a handheld device directly applicable in field. \'a9 2020 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Biological fluid;  Chemometrics;  Forensics analysis;  Hyperspectral imaging;  Near infrared spectroscopy\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 183\
Thomas, T., Piscitelli, M., Shavrov, I., Baggili, I.\
57223985097;57223983274;57223981716;37261105300;\
Memory FORESHADOW: Memory FOREnSics of HArDware CryptOcurrency wallets \'96 A Tool and Visualization Framework\
(2020) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 33, art. no. 301002, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85106651631&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2020.301002&partnerID=40&md5=3aa5e7ffb0626a5b4c26870dc4138254\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2020.301002\
AFFILIATIONS: University of New Haven Cyber Forensics Research and Education Group (UNHcFREG), Samuel S. Bergami Jr. Cybersecurity Center, United States; \
Connecticut Institute of Technology at the University of New Haven, United States\
ABSTRACT: We present Memory FORESHADOW: Memory FOREnSics of HArDware cryptOcurrency Wallets. To the best of our knowledge, this is the primary account of cryptocurrency hardware wallet client memory forensics. Our exploratory analysis revealed forensically relevant data in memory including transaction history, extended public keys, passphrases, and unique device identifiers. Data extracted with FORESHADOW can be used to associate a hardware wallet with a computer and allow an observer to deanonymize all past and future transactions due to hierarchical deterministic wallet address derivation. Additionally, our novel visualization framework enabled us to measure both the persistence and integrity of artifacts produced by the Ledger and Trezor hardware wallet clients. The framework can be generalized for use in future memory forensics work. \'a9 2020 The Author(s)\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Bitcoin;  Cryptocurrency;  Data recovery;  Ethereum;  Hardware wallet;  Ledger;  Memory Forensics;  Trezor\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 184\
Galbraith, C., Smyth, P., Stern, H.S.\
57195279346;7006933675;57203052171;\
Statistical Methods for the Forensic Analysis of Geolocated Event Data\
(2020) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 33, art. no. 301009, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85106649145&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2020.301009&partnerID=40&md5=82ca4d6ccd939cff91ba24efe38af050\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2020.301009\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Statistics, University of California, Irvine, Bren Hall 2019, Irvine, CA  92697, United States; \
Department of Computer Science, University of California, Irvine, Bren Hall 3019, Irvine, CA  92697, United States\
ABSTRACT: A common question in forensic analysis is whether two observed data sets originated from the same source or from different sources. Statistical approaches to addressing this question have been widely adopted within the forensics community, particularly for DNA evidence. Here we investigate the application of statistical approaches to same-source forensic questions for spatial event data, such as determining the likelihood that two sets of observed GPS locations were generated by the same individual. We develop two approaches to quantify the strength of evidence in this setting. The first is a likelihood ratio approach based on modeling the spatial event data directly. The second approach is to instead measure the similarity of the two observed data sets via a score function and then assess the strength of the observed score resulting in the score-based likelihood ratio. A comparative evaluation using geolocated Twitter event data from two large metropolitan areas shows the potential efficacy of such techniques. \'a9 2020 The Author(s)\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Event data;  Geolocation data;  Geoparcel data;  Likelihood ratio;  Score-based likelihood ratio;  Spatial point pattern\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 185\
Shin, Y., Kim, H., Kim, S., Yoo, D., Jo, W., Shon, T.\
57208127644;57208126524;57223979024;57208124420;57188574163;13408680500;\
Certificate Injection-Based Encrypted Traffic Forensics in AI Speaker Ecosystem\
(2020) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 33, art. no. 301010, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85106560535&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2020.301010&partnerID=40&md5=e84c1e4b039836d7ec9fc74ac0f3b6f1\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2020.301010\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Engineering, Ajou University, World cup-ro 206, Suwon, 16499, South Korea; \
Department of Cyber Security, Ajou University, World cup-ro 206, Suwon, 16499, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: AI Speakers are typical cloud-based internet of things (IoT) devices that store a variety of information regarding users on the cloud. Although analyzing encrypted traffic between these devices and the cloud, as well as the artifacts stored there, is an important research topic from the perspective of cloud-based IoT forensics, studies on directly analyzing encrypted traffic between AI Speakers and the cloud remain insufficient. In this study, we propose a forensic model that can collect and analyze encrypted traffic between an AI Speaker and the cloud based on a certificate injection. The proposed model consists of porting AI Speaker image on Android device, porting AI Speaker image using QEMU (Quick EMUlator), running exploit using the AI Speaker app vulnerability, rewriting Flash memory using H/W interface, and reworking and updating Flash memory. These five forensic methods are used to inject the certificate into AI Speakers. The proposed model shows that we can analyze encrypted traffic against various AI Speakers such as an Amazon Echo Dot, Naver Clova, SKT NUGU Candle, SKT NUGU, and KT GiGA Genie, and obtain artifacts stored on the cloud. In addition, we develop a verification tool that collects artifacts stored on KT GiGA Genie cloud. \'a9 2020 The Author(s)\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: AI Speaker;  Amazon alexa;  Certificate injectiion;  Cloud;  KT GiGA genie;  MitM;  SKT NUGU\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 186\
Wei, Y., Chen, Y., Kang, X., Wang, Z.J., Xiao, L.\
57218836866;57195132102;7102354750;11241026700;57204367077;\
Auto-generating neural networks with reinforcement learning for multi-purpose image forensics\
(2020) Proceedings - IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo, 2020-July, art. no. 9102943, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85090393976&doi=10.1109%2fICME46284.2020.9102943&partnerID=40&md5=9735b2e1e03e93a3a46580881fbb8dbf\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICME46284.2020.9102943\
AFFILIATIONS: Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangdong Key Lab of Information Security, School of Data and Computer Science, Guangzhou, China; \
University of British Colombia, Department of ECE, Vancouver, Canada; \
Xiamen University, Department of Communication Engineering, Xiamen, China\
ABSTRACT: Designing a forensic convolutional neural network (CNN) is usually based on some ad-hoc intuition and domain knowledge. Many methods to automate neural network design have been proposed for computer vision tasks, but they may not be directly applied to image forensic problems, which tend to detect weak traces signals left by image operations rather than strong image content signals. In this paper, we propose an approach to learn an optimal forensic CNN structure with reinforcement learning for detecting multiple image tampering operations. A learning agent is introduced to select CNN layers sequentially in a limited state-action space using Q-learning with an \\epsilon-greedy strategy and experience replay. The experiments demonstrate that the auto-generated network performs better than other classic image forensic methods and shows more robustness against JPEG compression. To our knowledge, this is the first attempt to design forensic deep neural networks automatically with reinforcement learning. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Auto-generated network;  Convolutional neural network;  Multi-purpose image forensics;  Reinforcement learning\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 187\
Kao, D.-Y.\
14037349500;\
Forensic exchange analysis of contact artifacts on data hiding timestamps\
(2020) Applied Sciences (Switzerland), 10 (13), art. no. 4686, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85087753282&doi=10.3390%2fapp10134686&partnerID=40&md5=b6bda35de0c7d504118c5cb2d11f8cda\
\
DOI: 10.3390/app10134686\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Management, Central Police University, Taoyuan City, 33304, Taiwan\
ABSTRACT: When computer systems are increasingly important for our daily activities, cybercrime has created challenges for the criminal justice system. Data can be hidden in ADS (Alternate Data Stream) without hindering performance. This feature has been exploited by malware authors, criminals, terrorists, and intelligence agents to erase, tamper, or conceal secrets. However, ADS problems are much ignored in digital forensics. Rare researches illustrated the contact artifacts of ADS timestamps. This paper performs a sequence of experiments from an inherited variety and provides an in-depth overview of timestamp transfer on data hiding operations. It utilizes files or folders as original media and uses the timestamp rules as an investigative approach for the forensic exchange analysis of file sets. This paper also explores timestamp rules using case examples, which allow practical applications of crime scene reconstruction to real-world contexts. The experiment results demonstrate the effectiveness of temporal attributes, help digital forensic practitioners to uncover hidden relations, and trace the contact artifacts among crime scenes, victims, and suspects/criminals. \'a9 2020 by the authors.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Contact artifacts;  Crime scene reconstruction;  Cybercrime investigation;  Data hiding;  Digital forensics;  Exchange principle;  Temporal attributes;  Timestamp transfer;  Trace evidence\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 188\
Prayudi, Y., Prayudi, Y., Ashari, A., Priyambodo, T.K.\
56520293400;56520293400;35795109200;56520163200;\
The framework to support the digital evidence handling: A case study of procedures for the management of evidence in Indonesia\
(2020) Journal of Cases on Information Technology, 22 (3), pp. 51-71. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85087095487&doi=10.4018%2fJCIT.2020070104&partnerID=40&md5=d1d28c3b3646b3895744a758a2eb0be1\
\
DOI: 10.4018/JCIT.2020070104\
AFFILIATIONS: Universitas Islam, Indonesia; \
Department of Computer Science and Electronics, Gadjah Mada University, Indonesia\
ABSTRACT: Digital evidence has a different meaning from physical evidence, but even though it is different, both are a unity of evidence that supports each other in the investigation process. Unfortunately, laws and regulations generally have not been oriented to the terminology of digital evidence that should be. It becomes a research challenge in how the handling of digital evidence also gets the same treatment as physical evidence. For this reason, technical studies are needed to support the application of law and regulations for digital evidence handling. This article provides a solution in the form of digital evidence cabinets as a framework to support the centralization of digital evidence that following the applicable regulations of procedures for the management of evidence in the territory of Indonesia. This concept can translate the centralization of digital evidence through the analogy of physical cabinet and the interpretation of cabinet, rack, bags, and evidence unit with types of criminals, list of crimes, list of crime scenes and list of digital evidence at one crime scene. Copyright \'a9 2020, IGI Global.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Centralization;  Cybercrime;  Digital Forensics;  Evidence Cabinet;  Evidence Room;  Physical Evidence\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 189\
Tao, B., Wang, R., Yan, D., Jin, C.\
57193379490;7405340909;24825818400;55545032800;\
Anti-forensics of double compressed MP3 audio\
(2020) International Journal of Digital Crime and Forensics, 12 (3), pp. 45-57. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85083559272&doi=10.4018%2fIJDCF.2020070104&partnerID=40&md5=31b51052f4caa58144046be3364799c0\
\
DOI: 10.4018/IJDCF.2020070104\
AFFILIATIONS: Ningbo University, China\
ABSTRACT: The widespread availability of audio editing software has made it easy to create acoustically convincing digital audio forgeries. To address this problem, more and more attention has been paid to the field of digital audio forensics. There has been little work, however, in the field of anti-forensics, which seeks to develop a set of techniques designed to fool current forensic methodologies. The compression history of an audio sample can be used to provide evidence of audio forgeries. In this work, we present a simple method for distinguishing the MP3 compression history of an audio sample. We show the proposed anti-forensics method to remove the artifacts of MP3 double compression by destroying the audio frame structure. In addition, effectiveness of the proposed method is verified by three double compression detection methods. The experimental results show that the proposed method can effectively resist detection from three methods. Copyright \'a9 2020, IGI Global.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Audio forensics;  Doubles MP3 compression;  Frame structure\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 190 **SELECTED** SID: 11\
Al-Sharif, Z.A., Al-Saleh, M.I., Alawneh, L.M., Jararweh, Y.I., Gupta, B.\
15057659200;36808911000;16174199300;25825095600;34770593700;\
Live forensics of software attacks on cyber\'96physical systems\
(2020) Future Generation Computer Systems, 108, pp. 1217-1229. Cited 18 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85050376370&doi=10.1016%2fj.future.2018.07.028&partnerID=40&md5=7dd39f8eb3d54bf0d59a21dd9adf51ac\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.future.2018.07.028\
AFFILIATIONS: Software Engineering Department, Jordan University of Science and Technology, Irbid, 22110, Jordan; \
Computer Science Department, Jordan University of Science and Technology, Irbid, 22110, Jordan; \
National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra, India\
ABSTRACT: Increasingly, Cyber\'96physical Systems are expected to operate in different environments and interconnect with a diverse set of systems, equipment, and networks. This openness to heterogeneity, diversity, and complexity introduces a new level of vulnerabilities, which adds to the consistent need for security including the digital forensics capabilities. Digital investigators utilize the information on the attacker's computer to find clues that may help in proving a case. One aspect is the digital evidence that can be extracted from the main memory (RAM), which includes live information about running programs. A program's states, represented by variables\'92 values, vary in their scope and duration. This paper explores RAM artifacts of Java programs. Because JVMs can run on various platforms, we compare the same program on three different implementations of JVM from forensic perspectives. Our investigation model assumes no information is provided by the underlying OS or JVM. Our results show that a program's states can still be extracted even after the garbage collector is explicitly invoked, the software is stopped, or the JVM is terminated. This research helps investigators identify the software used to launch the attack and understand its internal flows. Investigators can utilize this information to accuse the perpetrators and recover from attacks. \'a9 2018 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Evidence collection process;  Execution path;  Execution state;  Memory forensics;  Program's execution behavior\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 191\
Shafiee Hasanabadi, S., Habibi Lashkari, A., Ghorbani, A.A.\
57221328243;35069899900;57219106164;\
A game-theoretic defensive approach for forensic investigators against rootkits\
(2020) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 33, art. no. 200909, . Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85098881420&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2020.200909&partnerID=40&md5=3a392064280a9351e86a9a725c226f39\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2020.200909\
AFFILIATIONS: Canadian Institute for Cybersecurity, University of New Brunswick (UNB), Fredericton, NB, Canada\
ABSTRACT: Forensic science aims to present evidence in the courtroom, in a forensically sound manner. Therefore, forensic procedures must guarantee the provability, admissibility, accuracy, and authenticity of the case's evidence. However, anti-forensics threaten forensic procedures by forging, hiding, and even modifying remaining evidence in a crime scene. For instance, rootkits hide traces of attacks in a compromised system. To prevent anti-forensics, forensic investigators use de-anti-forensic methods (e.g. anti-rootkits). The necessity of more research on anti-forensics motivated us to propose a game-theoretic approach to model the interactions between an attacker and an investigator (players) who use rootkits and anti-rootkits, respectively. We assume these players act competitively, and each does not know his/her opponent's pay-off. We identify sets of characteristics for rootkits and anti-rootkits to profile them and define each player's actions. We examine the existence of the Nash Equilibrium for a two-player game. Experimental results show the simulated game is convergent. Thus, we identify the investigators' most desirable and stable defensive strategies against the attacker's most desirable and stable offensive strategies. We also formulate a relationship between characteristics of rootkits and anti-rootkits using the Nash Equilibrium of the game. Finally, we propose some general features to help investigators to evaluate anti-rootkits and design more efficient defensive tools. \'a9 2020 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Anti-rootkit profiling;  De-anti forensics;  Defensive strategies;  Fictitious play;  Game theory;  Nash equilibrium;  Rootkit profiling\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 192\
Lallie, H.S.\
36459976300;\
Dashcam forensics: A preliminary analysis of 7 dashcam devices\
(2020) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 33, art. no. 200910, . Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85094605352&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2020.200910&partnerID=40&md5=4c56474fbcb59107f105ab305b84400f\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2020.200910\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Warwick, WMG, Gibbet Hill RoadCV4 7AL, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Dashboard cameras (\'93dashcams\'94) are becoming an important in-car accessory used to record audio and visual footage of car journeys. The audio/video footage produced by dashcams have become important items of evidence. This paper explores the problems related to the management and processing of dashcam evidence, and in particular, highlights challenges to the admissibility of evidence submitted online. The key contribution of this paper is to outline the results of an experiment which aimed to reveal the prevalence and provenance of artefacts created by the use of dashcams on the SD storage system of seven dashcam systems. The research describes the provenance of evidential artefacts relating to: the dashcam recording mode, GPS data, vehicular speed data, licence plate data, and temporal data which was found in at least six locations - namely: NMEA files, configuration/diagnostic files, EXIF metadata, directory structures, filename structures and imagery watermarks. \'a9 2020 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Dashcam;  Digital forensic;  Video forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 193\
Sharma, P., Nagpal, B.\
56973063100;56785740100;\
Regex: an experimental approach for searching in cyber forensic\
(2020) International Journal of Information Technology (Singapore), 12 (2), pp. 339-343. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85091812450&doi=10.1007%2fs41870-019-00401-y&partnerID=40&md5=036840280255589f2cc40193b2764711\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s41870-019-00401-y\
AFFILIATIONS: CSE Department, AIACT&R, Geeta Colony, Delhi, India\
ABSTRACT: The expeditious improvement and advancement in technology have shaped computers as ammunition, which may lead to a huge loss if used for wrong motives. The objective of computer forensics involves correctly examine and collect the digital evidence in such a manner so that they are justifiable in court. Due to the growing importance of cyber world security and the sincerity of cybercrime, it is essential for security professionals to know the technology used in forensics and keyword searching is the most handful technique for identifying potential evidence from the pool of files. This paper aims to provide a proper understanding of regular expressions keyword search technique used in computer forensics investigation. In this paper, we perform the experiments using Prodiscover tool to reduce the search space by identifying and filtering the known files to speed up the searching process of evidence identification. \'a9 2019, Bharati Vidyapeeth's Institute of Computer Applications and Management.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Keyword search technique;  Prodiscover tool;  Regular expression\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 194\
Pradeep, K.C., Soman, R., Honnavalli, P.\
57219120957;57210119870;57211807480;\
Validity of forensic evidence using hash function\
(2020) Proceedings of the 5th International Conference on Communication and Electronics Systems, ICCES 2020, art. no. 09138061, pp. 823-826. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85091339700&doi=10.1109%2fICCES48766.2020.09138061&partnerID=40&md5=33d7ed9ced6205172837daafd5ab2b99\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICCES48766.2020.09138061\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, PES University, Bangalore, India\
ABSTRACT: In any crime scene, the cyber forensics team look out for various evidences. In particular, they seek digital evidences such as surveillance system, hard disk drives, pen drives, and so on. After gathering the necessary evidences, they produce an exact copy of the evidence, called the forensics copy, rather than the original copy. This is done to avoid the destruction of original evidence. During the course of the investigation, the evidences may go through several phases. At any point of time, the investigator must be completely sure that the evidence is the exact same copy of the forensics copy. Hash functions play a very crucial role in this regard. They are used to verify whether the evidence has been subject to some unauthorized manipulation. SHA-1 and SHA-2 has been among the widely used hash functions. But nowadays, SHA-1 is considered weak. Furthermore, although SHA-3 is more secure than its earlier counterparts, it is considered to be slow on general purpose processors and as such, they are not so popular as yet. In this context, this assignment proposes a simple, but effective mechanism to fulfill the needs of cyber forensics using the combined capabilities of hashing functions, along with other cryptography concepts such as SALT. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cryptography;  Cyber forensics;  Hashing;  SALT;  SHA-1;  SHA-2;  SHA-3\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 195\
Burri, X., Casey, E., Boll\'e9, T., Jaquet-Chiffelle, D.-O.\
57221093276;9843819800;57201692515;23477173800;\
Chronological independently verifiable electronic chain of custody ledger using blockchain technology\
(2020) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 33, art. no. 300976, . Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85090350653&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2020.300976&partnerID=40&md5=7cc9f4acfea51044dabaebe27a8e0892\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2020.300976\
AFFILIATIONS: Swiss Federal Customs Administration, Switzerland; \
University of Lausanne, Switzerland\
ABSTRACT: As evidence in digital form becomes more prevalent in all kinds of investigations, there is a pressing need for a trustworthy and transparent way to maintain electronic chain of custody (e-CoC) and integrity information that is independently verifiable. Generally, a hash value of digital evidence is calculated and documented with the acquired data to prove that it has not been altered. However, the hash value alone does not prove that digital evidence is the same as when it was obtained, only that the contents has not been modified since the time when the hash was calculated. This work responds to the need for a chronological independently verifiable e-CoC ledger using blockchain technology. Employing this approach, each e-CoC record is stored in a block, each block being connected to the previous one with the hash value of the block. This e-CoC ledger, the blockchain, can be hosted by a trusted entity and accessed by any party to verify e-CoC details. For privacy reasons, sensitive information is not stored inside the e-CoC record in the blockchain. Moreover, to prove that the e-CoC ledger itself has not been modified, information is periodically sent to a public blockchain, where the integrity is guaranteed by its decentralization and the structure of such a secure ledger. Not all of the blocks are sent into a public blockchain which allows different levels of verification. Proof-of-work examples are provided using AFF4 and dc3dd to demonstrate how this e-CoC ledger can be used by different parties in a legal context, including digital forensic practitioners, attorneys and judges. \'a9 2020 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: AFF4;  Blockchain;  Digital evidence integrity;  Digital forensic science;  Digital traces;  Electronic chain of custody (e-CoC);  Fingerprints of digital traces;  Independently verifiable provenance;  Secure ledger\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 196\
Badr, A., Youssif, A., Wafi, M.\
57217835363;23394249400;57217832280;\
A Robust Copy-Move Forgery Detection in Digital Image Forensics Using SURF\
(2020) 8th International Symposium on Digital Forensics and Security, ISDFS 2020, art. no. 9116433, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85087658526&doi=10.1109%2fISDFS49300.2020.9116433&partnerID=40&md5=d6ea0804d7a758378e5f6cf073bc81ce\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISDFS49300.2020.9116433\
AFFILIATIONS: Helwan University, Computers and Artificial Intelligence, Cairo, Egypt; \
Arab Academy for Science Technology, Computing and Information Technology, Cairo, Egypt; \
Arab Open University, Computing Studies, Cairo, Egypt\
ABSTRACT: In recent years, due to the technological revolution in editing digital images, various advanced image manipulating software has been used to build new unrealistic images without leaving traces of what happens, therefore tampering will be hard to detect visually. Digital image forgeries have many forms but still recognizing copy-move forgery is very challenging. Hence, this paper introduces a new robust algorithm to detect copy-move forgery based on Speeded Up Robust Feature (SURF) descriptor, Approximate Nearest Neighbor (ANN) as a feature matching, Simple Linear Iterative Clustering (SLIC) used as a clustering algorithm to divide the whole image into superpixel blocks. The doubted regions are determined by replacing the matched feature points with corresponding superpixel blocks then the neighboring blocks have been merged based on similar Local Color Features (LCF). Finally, morphological close operation applied to elicit the doubted forged regions. Proposed algorithm recorded a running time of 3.84 seconds with 91.95% localization accuracy applied on various datasets such as CoMoFoD, MICC-F2000, MICC-F220, and MICC-F600 for detecting tampered plain copy-move, duplicate regions, post-processing and pre-processing attacks like color reduction, blurring, brightness modifications, noise addition, geometric attacks, and JPEG compression as an evaluation of robustness. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Approximate NN;  copy-move forgery detection;  LCF;  morphological close operation;  SLIC;  SURF\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 197 **SELECTED** SID: 12\
Majed, H., Noura, H.N., Chehab, A.\
57217831060;55628524282;6602650305;\
Overview of Digital Forensics and Anti-Forensics Techniques\
(2020) 8th International Symposium on Digital Forensics and Security, ISDFS 2020, art. no. 9116399, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85087632748&doi=10.1109%2fISDFS49300.2020.9116399&partnerID=40&md5=7f8af9e1473b9da9b110076942698eeb\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISDFS49300.2020.9116399\
AFFILIATIONS: Arab Open University, Department of Computer Studies, Beirut, Lebanon; \
American University of Beirut, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Beirut, Lebanon\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics is very essential in any investigation where data is involved after a security breach. Data contents might be personal, business-related, or strictly confidential. The aim of digital forensics is to legally acquire and analyze the examined data, while Anti-forensics techniques aim to hide, manipulate, and even wipe the data, or to target the credibility of the acquired evidence. This paper presents the current antiforensics techniques, the methods applied, and the available countermeasures. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: anti-forensics;  Digital forensics;  forensics techniques\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 198\
Adamu, B.Z., Karabatak, M., Ertam, F.\
57217830571;16230752700;57189056955;\
A Conceptual Framework for Database Anti-forensics Impact Mitigation\
(2020) 8th International Symposium on Digital Forensics and Security, ISDFS 2020, art. no. 9116375, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85087610576&doi=10.1109%2fISDFS49300.2020.9116375&partnerID=40&md5=641392dc43bbbfb367b174ac23f350d2\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISDFS49300.2020.9116375\
AFFILIATIONS: Firat University, Digital Forensics Engineering, Elazig, Turkey; \
Firat University, Software Engineering, Elazig, Turkey\
ABSTRACT: The emergence of databases has become one of the most important achievements in the field of software. Databases are at the core of information systems (Online and Offline), and this has fundamentally made them a target for malicious intents because they contain sensitive information. Digital forensics tends to outwit such malicious activities by providing provable evidence for prosecution. On the other hand, criminals develop and promote counter forensic measures to reduce the quality and quantity of forensic data known as 'Anti-forensics'. Such counter measures tend to jeopardize forensics efforts at all stages to ensure that court admissible evidences are not acquired. The aim of this paper is to explore database anti-forensics agents, highlight the challenges and or negative effects they pose at various stages of the database forensics processes, present a taxonomy for database anti-forensics impacts, provide recommendations on how these impacts can be mitigated, and directions for future research opportunities. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: anti-forensics;  database;  database forensics;  digital forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 199\
Gros, T., Dirauf, R., Freiling, F.\
57210341608;57219314449;13007598800;\
Systematic analysis of browser history evidence\
(2020) Proceedings - 2020 13th Systematic Approaches to Digital Forensic Engineering, SADFE 2020, art. no. 9133709, pp. 1-12. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85092158808&doi=10.1109%2fSADFE51007.2020.00010&partnerID=40&md5=4f25a4f52694f901030aeeb1b90da2c4\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SADFE51007.2020.00010\
AFFILIATIONS: Friedrich-Alexander-Universit\'e4t Erlangen-N\'fcrnberg (FAU), Department of Computer Science, Erlangen, D-91058, Germany\
ABSTRACT: Traces of browser usage are an important piece of digital evidence in many cases. In the literature, it is usually assumed that the entries in the browser history and the browser cache reliably indicate which URL was accessed and at which time this was done. Using the market leaders Google Chrome and Mozilla Firefox as examples, and comparing our results with older versions of Internet Explorer, we show that this exact correspondence between stored URL and real URL on the one side and the stored timestamp and the real time of the action is not always true. On the contrary, it is rather common that browsers record the timestamp of a user action several seconds after the action really happened. It can even happen that browsers sometimes record a different domain from the domain that was actually visited. The basis for our insights was a large scale experiment using an automatic deployment of virtual machines, resulting in a dataset of considerable size. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 200 **SELECTED** SID: 13\
Stoykova, R., Franke, K.\
57204611393;14057858600;\
Standard representation for digital forensic processing\
(2020) Proceedings - 2020 13th Systematic Approaches to Digital Forensic Engineering, SADFE 2020, art. no. 9133704, pp. 46-56. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85092143400&doi=10.1109%2fSADFE51007.2020.00014&partnerID=40&md5=a9f50ba514fa515d9be523d781ba5d91\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SADFE51007.2020.00014\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Groningen, Faculty of Law, Netherlands; \
Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Department of Information Security and Communication Technology, Norway; \
Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Department of Information Security and Communication Technology, 22 Teknologivegen, Gj\'f8vik, 2815, Norway\
ABSTRACT: This paper discusses the lack of reliability and reproducibility validation in digital forensics for a criminal trial. It is argued that this challenge can be addressed with standard data-representation for digital evidence. The representation must include reproducibility documentation on processing operations including automation, human interaction, and investigation steps. Analyzed are two blueprint articles - the CASE specification language for cyber-investigations [1] and the WANDA data standard for the documenting semi-automated hand-writing examination [2]. These two generic frameworks are studied for their granularity to support reproducibility testing by representing: (i) artefact characteristics, forensic - tool parameters and input - output logic; (ii) human and tool data interpretation; and (iii) parallel-running forensic tasks or chains of processes. Proposed is the integration of WANDA-based schema as CASE expression. The utility of such integration is demonstrated as a new module in CASE designed to meet the high standard of proof and scientific validation typically required in criminal investigations and trials. The expression ensures compliance without overburdening digital forensic practitioners. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: automation;  digital forensics;  machine-generated annotations;  reliability;  reproducibility;  standard representation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 201\
Peng, L., Luo, J., Li, J.\
57192091645;57218499897;57218502178;\
Information Fusion-Based Digital Forensics Framework in Cloud Environment\
(2020) 2020 3rd International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Big Data, ICAIBD 2020, art. no. 9137434, pp. 279-283. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85089336862&doi=10.1109%2fICAIBD49809.2020.9137434&partnerID=40&md5=6d1dc3b890a22db7e01340b6665be869\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICAIBD49809.2020.9137434\
AFFILIATIONS: Sichuan Police College, Department of Computer Science and Technology, Luzhou, China\
ABSTRACT: People can access their files for using cloud computing technology conveniently and deploy commonly used applications. In the meantime, cloud services also can be utilized by criminals to commit malicious activities, and the criminal acts is hard to track because the crime detail information would be easily lost at the data deluge of cloud environment. To perform investigation in cloud efficiently, many digital forensics frameworks are used to cloud environment. In this paper we present a cloud forensics framework that based on data mining technique, and it is divided into four layers: abstract layer, information collection layer, data storage layer and information fusion layer. In order to analysis and segregate the relevance evidence for proving crime, we propose employ fusion clustering algorithm to analyze data information in information fusion layer. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: cloud environment;  digital forensics framework;  information fusion\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 202\
Matern, F., Riess, C., Stamminger, M.\
56532046600;23393831200;55906526700;\
Depth Map Fingerprinting and Splicing Detection\
(2020) ICASSP, IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing - Proceedings, 2020-May, art. no. 9052979, pp. 2782-2786. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85089226000&doi=10.1109%2fICASSP40776.2020.9052979&partnerID=40&md5=0236c863d80a4a5bb8714b226f2651c7\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICASSP40776.2020.9052979\
AFFILIATIONS: Friedrich-Alexander Universit\'e4t Erlangen-N\'fcrnberg (FAU), Visual Computing, Germany; \
Friedrich-Alexander Universit\'e4t Erlangen-N\'fcrnberg (FAU), IT Security Infrastructures Lab, Germany\
ABSTRACT: With the ubiquity of social networks, images have become crucial in todays exchange of information. Most of these images are taken by smartphones. For forensic approaches relying on fixed image formation pipelines, the capabilities of smartphones using computational photography pose new challenges. But these new capabilities also offer opportunities for forensic analysis. A growing amount of commodity devices are able to capture 3-D information using various technologies such as stereo imaging or structured light. Modern smartphones commonly save such 3-D information as depth maps alongside regular images.In this work, we propose to use characteristic artifacts of depth reconstruction algorithms as trace for forensic analysis. The proposed method is able to infer the source algorithm of stereo reconstructions with an accuracy of up to 97%. We further demonstrate the applicability of the method to collected smartphone data. It is able to discriminate patches from different sources with an AUC of up to 0.88 and can be used for splicing localization in depth maps. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: depth;  forgery detection;  image forensics;  smartphone;  source identification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 203\
Bian, L., Luo, X., Li, S.\
57216846100;57216844370;57248288100;\
Image mosaic tampering detection based on deep learning [
\f2 \'bb\'f9\'d3\'da\'c9\'ee\'b6\'c8\'d1\'a7\'cf\'b0\'b5\'c4\'cd\'bc\'cf\'f1\'c6\'b4\'bd\'d3\'b4\'db\'b8\'c4\'bc\'ec\'b2\'e2
\f0 ]\
(2020) Beijing Hangkong Hangtian Daxue Xuebao/Journal of Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 46 (5), pp. 1039-1044. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85084960211&doi=10.13700%2fj.bh.1001-5965.2019.0583&partnerID=40&md5=60ee062d8bb5b053059a0ef5c9272b4a\
\
DOI: 10.13700/j.bh.1001-5965.2019.0583\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electronic and Information Engineering, Beihang University, Beijing, 100083, China; \
School of Information Technology and Network Security, People's Public Security University of China, Beijing, 100038, China\
ABSTRACT: The traditional image stitching detection algorithm manually constructs the stitching features by researchers. With the advancement of technology and the continuous development of image processing technology, the limitations of the features of manual construction, such as weak robustness and difficult positioning, are gradually manifested. Aimed at this kind of problem, this paper proposes to construct a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) by means of fixed pre-convolution kernel, and detect the image tampering area by feature self-learning. Through experiments and research, it is found that the features of the mosaic tampering area of the spliced tamper image can be learned by the CNN model. Prior to the CNN model, the convolution kernel uses a high-pass filter and the activation function uses an Exponential Linear Unit (ELU), which makes the CNN model be capable of identifying features such as splicing and tampering with image edge traces. The detection results show that the positioning accuracy for the falsification image's tampering area is 84.3% in the IEEE IFS-TC image forensics training set and the detection true negative rate of the tampering area is 96.18%. \'a9 2020, Editorial Board of JBUAA. All right reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Convolutional Neural Network (CNN);  Deep learning;  Exponential Linear Unit (ELU);  Image mosaic forensics;  Loss function\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 204\
Liu, X., Lu, W., Xue, Y., Yeung, Y.\
57202312037;26664168800;57202300184;57202310934;\
Upscaling factor estimation on double JPEG compressed images\
(2020) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 79 (19-20), pp. 12891-12914. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85078364642&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-019-08519-8&partnerID=40&md5=4672c20b67445bcd2a83e5aa307a12c9\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-019-08519-8\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Data and Computer Science, Guangdong Key Laboratory of Information Security Technology, Key Laboratory of Machine Intelligence and Advanced Computing (Ministry of Education), Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China; \
State Key Laboratory of Information Security, Institute of Information Engineering, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100093, China\
ABSTRACT: Resampling detection is one of the most important topics in image forensics. Some methods can even estimate the resampling factors. However, it remains a challenge on the post-compressed images because the JPEG compression destroys the statistical characteristics of the resampled images which greatly affect the detection ability. In this paper, we propose a method to estimate the upscaling factors of double JPEG compressed images in the presence of image upscaling between the two compressions. Both of the pre-compression and the post-compression have a great impact on the estimation. We first analyze the pre-compressed image upscaling and find that the peaks produced by the pre-compression will be suppressed by the post-compression. Therefore, the post-compression has a greater impact than the pre-compression. Through analyzing the influence of post-compression and the causes of the periodic JPEG peaks, we find that the image block estimation can effectively reduce the influence of JPEG block artifacts. To further improve the detection ability, a Gaussian filtering model is developed to deal with JPEG block artifacts and a detector which can more effective extract resampling characteristic is proposed to estimate the upscaling factor. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed detection method outperforms some state-of-the-art methods. \'a9 2020, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Image forensics;  Image resampling detection;  Scaling factor estimation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 205\
Yao, H., Wei, H., Qin, C., Zhang, X.\
52464719400;57208687609;35732239100;56034166800;\
An improved first quantization matrix estimation for nonaligned double compressed JPEG images\
(2020) Signal Processing, 170, art. no. 107430, . Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85076624460&doi=10.1016%2fj.sigpro.2019.107430&partnerID=40&md5=d6d343f4ce4d4f52d616af1cf030e489\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.sigpro.2019.107430\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Optical-Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Shanghai for Science and TechnologyShanghai  200093, China; \
School of Mechanical Engineering, University of Shanghai for Science and TechnologyShanghai  200093, China; \
School of Computer Science, Fudan UniversityShanghai  200433, China\
ABSTRACT: Estimation of the first quantization matrix of a nonaligned double compressed JPEG (NA-DJPG) image remains a challenging problem. To solve this problem, a novel method for estimating the original quantization steps of NA-DJPG images is proposed in this paper. Our method is separated into two phases: estimation of the misalignment parameters and estimation of the quantization steps. In the first phase, since the texture of the image has great influence on the traces of the first compression grid, an appropriate block selection strategy is proposed that takes the interference of texture into consideration, and this is followed by a differential boundary analysis to estimate the misalignment parameters between the first and second compression grids. In the second phase, a DCT coefficient histogram rearrangement strategy is first proposed to make the periodicity of the histogram more apparent. This is followed by a histogram frequency spectrum analysis to estimate the period of the histogram, which is close to the first quantization step. To further suppress the interference of the second compression, several quantization step candidates around the rounded period value are selected, and finally, the quantization step for each band is estimated via a comparison strategy of periodic bin accumulation. The experimental results and a comparison with existing methods demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of the proposed method. \'a9 2019 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Blocking artifact;  Double JPEG compression;  Image forensics;  Nonaligned grid;  Quantization step estimation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 206\
Jang, H., Hou, J.-U.\
57205738789;56218423300;\
Exposing digital image forgeries by detecting contextual abnormality using convolutional neural networks\
(2020) Sensors (Switzerland), 20 (8), art. no. 2262, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85083742860&doi=10.3390%2fs20082262&partnerID=40&md5=fef4b1c1f5f974c6bdd1a322b5ba4da9\
\
DOI: 10.3390/s20082262\
AFFILIATIONS: Cyber Security Research Division, The Affiliated Institute of ETRI, Daejeon, 34044, South Korea; \
School of Computing, Hallym University, Chuncheon, 24252, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Traditionally, digital image forensics mainly focused on the low-level features of an image, such as edges and texture, because these features include traces of the image\'92s modification history. However, previous methods that employed low-level features are highly vulnerable, even to frequently used image processing techniques such as JPEG and resizing, because these techniques add noise to the low-level features. In this paper, we propose a framework that uses deep neural networks to detect image manipulation based on contextual abnormality. The proposed method first detects the class and location of objects using a well-known object detector such as a region-based convolutional neural network (R-CNN) and evaluates the contextual scores according to the combination of objects, the spatial context of objects and the position of objects. Thus, the proposed forensics can detect image forgery based on contextual abnormality as long as the object can be identified even if noise is applied to the image, contrary to methods that employ low-level features, which are vulnerable to noise. Our experiments showed that our method is able to effectively detect contextual abnormality in an image. \'a9 2020 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Contextual abnormality;  Deep learning;  Digital image forensics;  Localization;  R-CNN\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 207 **SELECTED** SID: 14\
Schneider, J., Wolf, J., Freiling, F.\
57221097624;57221098878;13007598800;\
Tampering with Digital Evidence is Hard: The Case of Main Memory Images\
(2020) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 32, art. no. 300924, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85087780982&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2020.300924&partnerID=40&md5=dd11e4c7ff6c13bf68b4bb70236fc0bb\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2020.300924\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Friedrich-Alexander-Universit\'e4t Erlangen-N\'fcrnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany\
ABSTRACT: Tampered digital evidence may jeopardize its correct interpretation. To assess the risks in a court of law, it is helpful to quantify the necessary effort to perform a convincing manipulation of digital evidence. Based on a sequence of controlled experiments with graduate students and digital forensics professionals, we study the effort to manipulate copies of main memory taken during a digital investigation. Confirming previous results on hard disc image tampering, manipulating main memory dumps can be considered hard in the sense that most forgeries were successfully detected. However, while the effort to detect a manipulation is generally bounded by the tampering effort, some forgeries fooled the analysts and caused analysis effort that was higher than the manipulation effort. The detection effort by graduate students, however, was generally higher than that of professionals. We study different manipulation and detection approaches and their success. Overall, tampering with main memory dumps appears to be harder than tampering with hard disc images but the probability to fool an analyst is higher too. \'a9 2020 The Authors\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 208\
Stoyanova, M., Nikoloudakis, Y., Panagiotakis, S., Pallis, E., Markakis, E.K.\
57216414591;57191261491;57131428900;6508217585;7006033121;\
A Survey on the Internet of Things (IoT) Forensics: Challenges, Approaches, and Open Issues\
(2020) IEEE Communications Surveys and Tutorials, 22 (2), art. no. 8950109, pp. 1191-1221. Cited 75 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85083452109&doi=10.1109%2fCOMST.2019.2962586&partnerID=40&md5=61b738034d166797950eec89cfe3205c\
\
DOI: 10.1109/COMST.2019.2962586\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, Institute of Physics, Technical University of Berlin, Berlin, 10623, Germany; \
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Hellenic Mediterranean University, Heraklion, Greece\
ABSTRACT: Today is the era of the Internet of Things (IoT). The recent advances in hardware and information technology have accelerated the deployment of billions of interconnected, smart and adaptive devices in critical infrastructures like health, transportation, environmental control, and home automation. Transferring data over a network without requiring any kind of human-to-computer or human-to-human interaction, brings reliability and convenience to consumers, but also opens a new world of opportunity for intruders, and introduces a whole set of unique and complicated questions to the field of Digital Forensics. Although IoT data could be a rich source of evidence, forensics professionals cope with diverse problems, starting from the huge variety of IoT devices and non-standard formats, to the multi-tenant cloud infrastructure and the resulting multi-jurisdictional litigations. A further challenge is the end-to-end encryption which represents a trade-off between users' right to privacy and the success of the forensics investigation. Due to its volatile nature, digital evidence has to be acquired and analyzed using validated tools and techniques that ensure the maintenance of the Chain of Custody. Therefore, the purpose of this paper is to identify and discuss the main issues involved in the complex process of IoT-based investigations, particularly all legal, privacy and cloud security challenges. Furthermore, this work provides an overview of the past and current theoretical models in the digital forensics science. Special attention is paid to frameworks that aim to extract data in a privacy-preserving manner or secure the evidence integrity using decentralized blockchain-based solutions. In addition, the present paper addresses the ongoing Forensics-as-a-Service (FaaS) paradigm, as well as some promising cross-cutting data reduction and forensics intelligence techniques. Finally, several other research trends and open issues are presented, with emphasis on the need for proactive Forensics Readiness strategies and generally agreed-upon standards. \'a9 1998-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: blockchain forensics;  cloud forensics;  digital forensics approaches;  Internet of Things;  IoT forensics challenges;  IoV forensics;  privacy-aware forensics;  security and privacy challenges;  smart city forensics;  smart home forensics;  wearable device forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 209\
Li, Y., Xia, M., Liu, X., Yang, G.\
57214941530;55994627200;57213266465;8647279200;\
Identification of various image retargeting techniques using hybrid features\
(2020) Journal of Information Security and Applications, 51, art. no. 102459, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85079561027&doi=10.1016%2fj.jisa.2020.102459&partnerID=40&md5=9c04eb071f0ce40873ee91913441b2a9\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.jisa.2020.102459\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information Science and Engineering, Hunan University, Changsha, 410082, China; \
College of Information Engineering, Hunan Applied Technology University, Changde, 415000, China\
ABSTRACT: Image retargeting refers to manipulating an input image to adapt its display on diverse screens with distinct spatial resolutions and aspect ratios. However, it might also be used for malicious image forgeries such as object removal. There exist several types of image retargeting techniques, yet most existing image retargeting detection approaches expose only single type of image retargeting. This paper proposes a blind forensics approach to identify three image retargeting techniques including seam carving, scaling and scale-and-stretch. Since image retargeting usually leads to local texture distortion and global structure deformation, a 512-dimensional feature set, which is made up of LBPCO (co-occurrence of local binary pattern) and BSIF (binarized statistical image features), is designed to expose image retargeting artifacts. Support vector machine (SVM) is exploited as pattern classifier to identify three image retargeting techniques. Compared with existing works, the proposed approach not only detects image retargeting forgery, but also identifies specific image retargeting technique. \'a9 2020 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Binarized statistical image features;  Image forensics;  Image retargeting;  Multi-class classification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 210 **SELECTED** SID: 15\
Amato, F., Castiglione, A., Cozzolino, G., Narducci, F.\
57208073345;16027997000;7003415482;55303744900;\
A semantic-based methodology for digital forensics analysis\
(2020) Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing, 138, pp. 172-177. Cited 11 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85077796899&doi=10.1016%2fj.jpdc.2019.12.017&partnerID=40&md5=60de91ebb921dbd7f408f0f723fd0509\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.jpdc.2019.12.017\
AFFILIATIONS: DIETI, University of Naples \'93Federico II\'94, Via Claudio 21, Naples, Italy; \
DIST, University of Naples \'93Parthenope\'94, Centro Direzionale Isola C4, Naples, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Nowadays, more than ever, digital forensics activities are involved in any criminal, civil or military investigation and represent a fundamental tool to support cyber-security. Investigators use a variety of techniques and proprietary software forensics applications to examine the copy of digital devices, searching hidden, deleted, encrypted, or damaged files or folders. Any evidence found is carefully analysed and documented in a \'93finding report\'94 in preparation for legal proceedings that involve discovery, depositions, or actual litigation. The aim is to discover and analyse patterns of fraudulent activities. In this work, a new methodology is proposed to support investigators during the analysis process, correlating evidence found through different forensics tools. The methodology was implemented through a system able to add semantic assertion to data generated by forensics tools during extraction processes. These assertions enable more effective access to relevant information and enhanced retrieval and reasoning capabilities. \'a9 2019 Elsevier Inc.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Correlation;  Cybersecurity;  Digital forensics;  Log analysis;  Text analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 211\
Nirmal Jothi, J., Letitia, S.\
57211410276;24825036800;\
Tampering detection using hybrid local and global features in wavelet-transformed space with digital images\
(2020) Soft Computing, 24 (7), pp. 5427-5443. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85073826419&doi=10.1007%2fs00500-019-04298-4&partnerID=40&md5=d6abb7f22e392906fbc01bc51d2039dc\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s00500-019-04298-4\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, SCAD College of Engineering and Technology, Tirunelveli, India; \
Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, Thanthai Periyar Government Institute of Technology, Vellore, India\
ABSTRACT: The widespread availability of advanced digital image technology and powerful image editing tools has made it extremely easy to manipulate image content. One popular technique that is challenging for tampering detection methods is the copy\'96move forgery. Here, one part of the image is copied and is pasted into another part of the same image. Image tampering is very difficult to detect with the naked eye. The authenticity of digital images is critical when they are used as evidence in court, for news reports or insurance claims, as they have the power to influence decisions and outcomes. Hence, this paper presents an efficient method for copy\'96move forgery detection by means of a HOG descriptor and local binary pattern variance algorithms. The copy\'96move forgery detection (CMFD) approach is introduced and is applied to the forged region by determining suitable post-processing techniques. The proposed technique is evaluated using MICC-F220, MICC-F2000, UCID, CoMoFoD and CASIA TIDE data sets in which translation, flipping, rotation, scaling, color reduction, brightness change and JPEG compression are applied to an image. The experimental performance of the proposed technique is assessed in terms of the true- and false-detection rates. Ultimately, our proposed method is highly suitable for detecting the altered region, and accurate CMFD results are obtained in forensic image applications. \'a9 2019, Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Altered image;  Circular block;  Forensics;  Passive method;  Square block\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 212\
Singh, G., Singh, K.\
57209908810;26635862000;\
Digital image forensic approach based on the second-order statistical analysis of CFA artifacts\
(2020) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 32, art. no. 200899, . Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85098474730&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2019.200899&partnerID=40&md5=064ff49057be80d6a4f51097c304035f\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2019.200899\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, TIET, Patiala, Punjab, India\
ABSTRACT: The truthfulness of digital images can be evaluated by investigating the CFA artifacts introduced due to the interpolation process of the image acquisition phase. In this paper, an image tampering detection technique is proposed by exposing the CFA artifacts in difference domain through the higher-order statistical analysis based on the Markov transition probability matrix (MTPM). Firstly, the given image is re-interpolated with most commonly used four Bayer CFA patterns. The re-interpolation process is performed by using bilinear interpolation scheme for simplicity purpose. Then, the difference between the given image and its re-interpolated versions is evaluated to analyze the CFA inconsistencies. The target difference image is selected corresponding to the maximum sum which is further processed to evaluate the MTPM based second-order statistical feature. The recommended approach is assessed on different images from UCID dataset and various social networking websites based on scalar-based and SVM/machine learning based forensic detectors. The experiment results confirm that the projected method offers improved efficiency in comparison to the existing techniques based on different forgery scenarios. \'a9 2020 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Demosaicing;  Machine learning;  Markov transition probability matrix;  Re-interpolation process\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 213\
Casey, E.\
9843819800;\
Standardization of forming and expressing preliminary evaluative opinions on digital evidence\
(2020) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 32, art. no. 200888, . Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85090193447&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2019.200888&partnerID=40&md5=b50c91e3a93a525d94cea5112a5fb6e0\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2019.200888\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Lausanne, Switzerland\
ABSTRACT: The growing number of cases involving overlooked or misinterpreted digital evidence is raising concerns among factfinders and decision-makers about the reliability of digital forensic conclusions. To reduce the risk of mistakes and misinterpretations of forensic observations, including but not limited to digital evidence, there is a pressing need to standardize how evaluative opinions are formed and expressed. Responding to this need, the international community is drafting ISO-21043 and the UK Forensic Science Regulator is drafting an evaluative interpretation standard that promote a likelihood ratio approach. This approach is suitable for fully evaluative opinions in many forensic disciplines, but until more refined methods for evaluating digital evidence are developed, digital forensic practitioners require an interim solution to address immediate needs. More broadly, digital evidence is used in many non-judicial contexts that do not require fully evaluative opinions expressed as a likelihood ratio. This work proposes a standardized approach to formulating and expressing preliminary evaluative opinions in terms of strength of evidence in a manner that employs scientific reasoning within a logical Bayesian framework and can be understood by non-specialist factfinders. Illustrative case examples are presented that involve digital evidence tampering. In addition, this work presents a proof-of-concept database of cases involving tampering of digital evidence that could support assignment of strength of evidence in similar cases. \'a9 2019\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 214\
Reddy, G.U., Madhu Bala, M., Padmaja, B.\
57218608342;57192681614;56135179800;\
An Overview on Digital Forensics Tools used in Crime Investigation for Forgery Detection\
(2020) 2020 International Conference on Computer Science, Engineering and Applications, ICCSEA 2020, art. no. 9132965, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85089775580&doi=10.1109%2fICCSEA49143.2020.9132965&partnerID=40&md5=4e3f8c6034e45f8c24026220fa5e7ee3\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICCSEA49143.2020.9132965\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Aeronautical Engineering, Computer Science Engineering, Hyderabad, India\
ABSTRACT: Image Forensics has lot of importance in digital forensics in crime investigation process. As a coin has two different sides, many anti-Forensic tools are available to help criminals for hiding traces of forgery which also have been evolved with advancement in modern technology. In this paper the major focus is on overview of available forensics tools and frequent image processing techniques involved in it to investigate crime related digital traces. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Copy-move Detection;  Forgery;  Image Forensics;  Image Processing;  Image Tampering;  Lighting condition;  Retouching Image;  Splicing Detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 215\
Novozamsky, A., Saic, S., Mahdian, B.\
57190869096;6602460942;18434921700;\
IMD2020: A Large-Scale Annotated Dataset Tailored for Detecting Manipulated Images\
(2020) Proceedings - 2020 IEEE Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision Workshops, WACVW 2020, art. no. 9096940, pp. 71-80. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85085928065&doi=10.1109%2fWACVW50321.2020.9096940&partnerID=40&md5=c07f843895a471ba9b6e02ddc6b858b8\
\
DOI: 10.1109/WACVW50321.2020.9096940\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Information Theory and Automation, Czech Academy of Sciences, Prague, Czech Republic\
ABSTRACT: Witnessing impressive results of deep nets in a number of computer vision problems, the image forensic community has begun to utilize them in the challenging domain of detecting manipulated visual content. One of the obstacles to replicate the success of deep nets here is absence of diverse datasets tailored for training and testing of image forensic methods. Such datasets need to be designed to capture wide and complex types of systematic noise and intrinsic artifacts of images in order to avoid overfitting of learning methods to just a narrow set of camera types or types of manipulations. These artifacts are brought into visual content by various components of the image acquisition process as well as the manipulating process.In this paper, we introduce two novel datasets. First, we identified the majority of camera brands and models on the market, which resulted in 2,322 camera models. Then, we collected a dataset of 35,000 real images captured by these camera models. Moreover, we also created the same number of digitally manipulated images by using a large variety of core image manipulation methods as well we advanced ones such as GAN or Inpainting resulting in a dataset of 70,000 images. In addition to this dataset, we also created a dataset of 2,000 "real-life" (uncontrolled) manipulated images. They are made by unknown people and downloaded from Internet. The real versions of these images also have been found and are provided. We also manually created binary masks localizing the exact manipulated areas of these images. Both datasets are publicly available for the research community at http://staff.utia.cas.cz/novozada/db. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 216\
Sarkar, J., Naskar, R.\
57216907913;53866980700;\
A Curve Fitting Thresholding Approach for Forensic Source Identification of JPEG Compressed Images\
(2020) Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Computing for Sustainable Global Development, INDIACom 2020, art. no. 9083713, pp. 22-28. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85085242228&doi=10.23919%2fINDIACom49435.2020.9083713&partnerID=40&md5=741647613d0b3482f5dd2077806be2d8\
\
DOI: 10.23919/INDIACom49435.2020.9083713\
AFFILIATIONS: Central Institute of Technology, Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering, Kokrajhar, India; \
Indian Institute of Engineering Science Technology, Dept. of Information Technology, Shibpur, India\
ABSTRACT: One of the major threats of today's digital era is detection of cyber-crime pertaining to safety and security of multimedia data. Given the huge volumes of digital data circulated online by every common man on a day-to-day basis, this threat becomes more prominent. The risk of online fraudulences is at its peak today. In relation to cyber-crime detection, source camera identification is a much-researched forensic problem, which is mapping a contentious image back to its source device. This is mainly done by exploiting the camera sensor specific artifacts left behind in an image. However, the high degrees of compression, brought about (in an image) by online networking sites, cause the statistical image properties to get destroyed along with the camera sensor specific artifacts. This inhibits the image-to-source mapping in a forensic analysis, and hugely impacts the source detection accuracy. In this work, we present a detailed analysis of traditional forensic source detection techniques and evaluate their performance in presence of JPEG compression. In this paper, we propose a curve fitting based adaptive thresholding approach for image to source mapping. The proposed approach outperforms the current state-of-the-art in terms of source detection accuracy of digital images. \'a9 2020 Bharati Vidyapeeth, New Delhi.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensic;  JPEG compression;  Peak to correlation energy;  Sensorpattern noise;  Source camera identification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 217\
Bakas, J., Ramachandra, S., Naskar, R.\
57203821101;57216749068;53866980700;\
Double and triple compression-based forgery detection in JPEG images using deep convolutional neural network\
(2020) Journal of Electronic Imaging, 29 (2), art. no. 023006, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85084480810&doi=10.1117%2f1.JEI.29.2.023006&partnerID=40&md5=5cd197300f66ad4c8bdddc265413bc19\
\
DOI: 10.1117/1.JEI.29.2.023006\
AFFILIATIONS: National Institute of Technology, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Rourkela, Odisha, India; \
Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Department of Information Technology, Shibpur, West Bengal, India\
ABSTRACT: Recompression-based image forensics has been a largely investigated area in the forensic community over recent years. This mainly involves detecting the number of different compressions in an image by exploiting certain artifacts left behind by the compression stages. The artifacts left in images by Joint Photography Experts Group (JPEG) compression coding operations play an important role in passive forensic analysis of images, which help in assessing the authenticity of the image. In this regard, most of the solutions proposed to date are restricted to double compression detection in JPEG images. However, in practical cases, this restriction may not always work. This is because an image having undergone multiple stages of compression, including triple or higher degrees of compression, will be "missed" by such forgery detection algorithms. To address this issue, we propose a deep convolutional neural network (CNN) model that detects both double and triple compression in JPEG images. The model is trained with the compression features specific to single, double, and triple JPEG compressions. The trained model is capable of determining the authenticity of an image by distinguishing between tampered and untampered image regions. Further, the proposed model localizes the forged regions within an image, distinguishing between double and triple compressed regions. Our experimental results establish the efficiency of the proposed model. \'a9 2020 SPIE and IS&T.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: convolutional neural network;  deep learning;  double compression;  forgery localization;  JPEG image;  triple compression\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 218\
Wani, M.A., AlZahrani, A., Bhat, W.A.\
57202132834;57197006041;55199596100;\
File system anti-forensics \'96 types, techniques and tools\
(2020) Computer Fraud and Security, 2020 (3), pp. 14-19. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85082172002&doi=10.1016%2fS1361-3723%2820%2930030-0&partnerID=40&md5=6d4e178e52c9b5083d1e9f2e13ce37a1\
\
DOI: 10.1016/S1361-3723(20)30030-0\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Kashmir; \
Islamic University of Madinah; \
University of Madinah\
ABSTRACT: Forensics paved the way for the growth of anti-forensics, and the time has come for anti-forensics to return the favour. For that purpose, it is imperative that forensic investigators and practitioners are armed with the knowledge of contemporary anti-forensics types, techniques and tools. This article aims to provide technical information and a comprehensive understanding of file system anti-forensics types, techniques and tools so as to facilitate investigators' ability to collect technically credible and legally admissible digital evidence from crime scenes. Forensics paved the way for the growth of anti-forensics, which tries to prevent, hinder or corrupt the forensic process of evidence acquisition and analysis. The time has come for anti-forensics to return the favour. Mohamad Ahtisham Wani, Ali AlZahrani and Wasim Ahmad Bhat provide technical information and a comprehensive understanding of file system anti-forensics types, techniques and tools so as to facilitate investigators' ability to collect technically credible and legally admissible digital evidence from crime scenes. \'a9 2020 Elsevier Ltd\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 219\
Liu, X., Lu, W., Zhang, Q., Huang, J., Shi, Y.-Q.\
57202312037;26664168800;57205470648;56057258200;7404964736;\
Downscaling Factor Estimation on Pre-JPEG Compressed Images\
(2020) IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, 30 (3), art. no. 8618308, pp. 618-631. Cited 15 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85081788398&doi=10.1109%2fTCSVT.2019.2893353&partnerID=40&md5=ce9aee916595e233f44a1d935aa293f6\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TCSVT.2019.2893353\
AFFILIATIONS: Guangdong Key Laboratory of Information Security Technology, Key Laboratory of Machine Intelligence and Advanced Computing (Ministry of Education), School of Data and Computer Science, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China; \
Guangdong Key Laboratory of Intelligent Information Processing, College of Information Engineering, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, China; \
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark, NJ, United States\
ABSTRACT: Resampling detection is one of the most important topics in image forensics, and the most widely used method in resampling detection is spectral analysis. Since JPEG is the most widely used image format, it is reasonable that the resampling operation is processed on JPEG images. JPEG block artifacts bring severe interference to spectrum-based methods and degrade the detection performance. In addition, the spectral characteristics of the downscaling scenarios are very weak. The detection of downscaling still presents a considerable challenge to forensic applications. In this paper, we propose a method to estimate the downscaling factors of pre-JPEG compressed images in the presence of image downscaling after JPEG compressions. We first analyze the spectrum of scaled images and give an exact formulation of how the scaling factors influence the appearance of periodic artifacts. The expected positions of the characteristic resampling peaks are analytically derived. For the downscaling scenario, the shifted JPEG block artifacts produce periodic peaks, which cause misdetection in the characteristic peak. We find that the interval between the adjacent extrema of difference images obeys the geometric distribution and the distribution has periodic peaks for JPEG images. Hence, we adopt the difference image extremum interval histogram and combine the spectral method to obtain the final estimation. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed detection method outperforms some state-of-the-art methods. \'a9 1991-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: downscaling factor estimation;  Image forensics;  image resampling detection;  JPEG block artifacts\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 220\
Sikos, L.F.\
26653771300;\
Packet analysis for network forensics: A comprehensive survey\
(2020) Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 32, art. no. 200892, . Cited 13 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85079457286&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsidi.2019.200892&partnerID=40&md5=ccc519ad5353ed2d8cb2a641ba1e7f7f\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2019.200892\
AFFILIATIONS: Edith Cowan University, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Packet analysis is a primary traceback technique in network forensics, which, providing that the packet details captured are sufficiently detailed, can play back even the entire network traffic for a particular point in time. This can be used to find traces of nefarious online behavior, data breaches, unauthorized website access, malware infection, and intrusion attempts, and to reconstruct image files, documents, email attachments, etc. sent over the network. This paper is a comprehensive survey of the utilization of packet analysis, including deep packet inspection, in network forensics, and provides a review of AI-powered packet analysis methods with advanced network traffic classification and pattern identification capabilities. Considering that not all network information can be used in court, the types of digital evidence that might be admissible are detailed. The properties of both hardware appliances and packet analyzer software are reviewed from the perspective of their potential use in network forensics. \'a9 2019 The Author\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Deep packet inspection;  Digital evidence;  Intrusion detection;  Network forensics;  Network monitoring;  Packet analysis;  Packet sniffer;  Pcap;  Wireshark\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 221\
Kumar, A., Kansal, A., Singh, K.\
7408039032;36660766500;26635862000;\
Anti-forensic approach for JPEG compressed images with enhanced image quality and forensic undetectability\
(2020) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 79 (11-12), pp. 8061-8084. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85077587693&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-019-08599-6&partnerID=40&md5=20bd7506dd4765f5e4d2039c18e4798a\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-019-08599-6\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, TIET, Patiala, Punjab, India\
ABSTRACT: Most of the detectors employed in digital image forensics are based on JPEG compression. To determine the capability of these forensic detectors, proficient anti-forensic techniques that challenge and help in the upgradation of forensic techniques are required. This paper proposes an anti-forensic technique based on the shifted block Discrete Fractional Cosine Transform (DFrCT) approach. Afterwards, Total variation (TV) -based deblocking operation is used in order to remove the compression blocking artifacts. Due to the shifted block approach, the proposed method performs histogram smoothing without adding any dithering signal, which means that it is capable of applying dithering by itself. Further, to remove blocking artifacts which are left during the JPEG compression TV-based deblocking is used. The DFrCT approach provides an additional fractional parameter to improve the accuracy of the proposed approach. The proposed scheme is evaluated based on the UCID dataset images by considering the scalar based and machine learning-based forensic detectors. It is observed from the experimental results that the proposed approach provides improved performance in terms of PSNR, SSIM, and forensic undetectability when compared to existing techniques. The analysis performed in this paper challenges the security and robustness of JPEG compression forensic techniques. \'a9 2020, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Image restoration;  Image tampering;  JPEG compression;  Machine learning-based forensic detectors;  TV-based deblocking\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 222\
Anjum, A., Islam, S.\
57191571378;55148532800;\
Recapture detection technique based on edge-types by analysing high-frequency components in digital images acquired through LCD screens\
(2020) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 79 (11-12), pp. 6965-6985. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85077041562&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-019-08418-y&partnerID=40&md5=5db9a7181fef1ce8f32c528e49e2a423\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-019-08418-y\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Engineering, Zakir Husain College of Engineering and Technology, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, UP, India\
ABSTRACT: Digital images are part of our lives but with the advancement of technology, the authenticity of images is in doubt. Image editing tools are used to tamper images and high-quality cameras are used to recapture tampered images to evade tamper detection. In general, tampering introduces artifacts in images and these artifacts are camouflaged by the re-acquisition process. The re-acquisition process makes forged image more like original which is hard to detect visually and statistically. Thus, existing forensic tools and techniques fail to detect tampering in reacquired or recaptured images. This paper proposes a novel technique to detect recaptured images by exploiting the high-level details present in images and based on that edge profile is obtained. Further, edges are classified into different groups. It has been observed that the number of edge pixels in these edge groups is different for original and recaptured images. Based on the number of pixels in edges, a feature vector is built and a system is trained using SVM classifier. The proposed method tested on two databases. The experimental results demonstrated that proposed method is better than existing techniques for recapture detection. \'a9 2019, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Aliasing;  Blurriness;  Digital image forensics;  Edge-profile;  Recapture detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 223\
Noura, H.N., Salman, O., Chehab, A., Couturier, R.\
55628524282;57188985077;6602650305;8655841300;\
DistLog: A distributed logging scheme for IoT forensics\
(2020) Ad Hoc Networks, 98, art. no. 102061, . Cited 12 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85076842914&doi=10.1016%2fj.adhoc.2019.102061&partnerID=40&md5=8631b7f604b061e76fee98c984994ab1\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.adhoc.2019.102061\
AFFILIATIONS: Electrical and Computer Engineering, American University of Beirut (AUB), Beirut, Lebanon; \
Univ. Bourgogne Franche-Comt\'e9 (UBFC), FEMTO-ST Institute, CNRS, Belfort, France\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics are vital in the Internet of Things (IoT) domain. This is due to the enormous growth of cyber attacks and their widespread use against IoT devices. While IoT forensics do not prevent IoT attacks, they help in reducing their occurrence by tracing their source, tracking their root causes and designing the corresponding countermeasures. However, modern IoT attacks use anti-forensics techniques to destroy or modify any important digital evidence including log files. Anti-forensics techniques complicate the task for forensic investigators in tracking the attack source. Thus, countermeasures are required to defend against anti-forensics techniques. In this paper, we aim at securing the IoT log files to prevent anti-forensics techniques that target the logs\'92 availability and integrity such as wiping and injecting attacks. In the proposed solution, and at regular intervals of time, the logs generated by IoT devices are aggregated, compressed and encrypted. Afterwards, the encrypted logs are fragmented, authenticated and distributed over n storage nodes, based on the proposed Modified Information Dispersal Algorithm (MIDA) that can ensure log files availability with a degree of (n\uc0\u8722 t). For data dispersal, two cases are considered: the case where the fog nodes are interconnected and the case where they are not. For the former case, the n obtained fragments are transmitted to n neighboring IoT devices (aggregation nodes). However, for the latter one, the output is transmitted to the corresponding fog and then, dispersed over the n neighboring fog nodes. A set of security and performance tests were performed showing the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed solution in thwarting well-known security attacks. \'a9 2019\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-Forensics;  Anti-Forensics IoT;  IoT digital forensics;  Log files availability;  Preserving evidence;  Protecting log files\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 224\
Yao, H., Ni, R., Zhao, Y.\
57208337527;55632437300;35304414700;\
Double compression detection for H.264 videos with adaptive GOP structure\
(2020) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 79 (9-10), pp. 5789-5806. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85076784110&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-019-08306-5&partnerID=40&md5=e869426708961f79731c73ec2c829e15\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-019-08306-5\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Information Science, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, 100044, China; \
Beijing Key Laboratory of Advanced Information Science and Network Technology, Beijing, 100044, China\
ABSTRACT: As a blind forensic method, double compression detection is valid to multiple manipulations. However, the existing methods only consider to detect the videos with fixed Group of Pictures (GOP). In this paper, we put forward a novel double compression detection method for videos with both fixed and adaptive GOP structure in H.264 videos. Considering that video may contain adaptive GOPs caused by fast moving contents or scene changes, in our double compression detection scheme, temporal segmentation is first used to divide video into static and rapid periods which contain normal fixed and adaptive GOPs respectively. Then, new artifacts based on the sequence of frame\'92s byte count (FBC) are analyzed. A feature sequence composed of recognizable distances is generated by combining the artifacts in the static and rapid periods of video. Finally, to reveal the intrinsic property of the feature sequence, a scoring strategy is designed to determine whether or not double compression. The experiments demonstrate that the proposed scheme is effective to detect double compression of H.264 videos, and it outperforms other existing state-of-the-art methods. \'a9 2019, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Adaptive GOP;  Double compression detection;  Frame byte count sequence;  Video forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 225\
Fayyaz, M.A., Anjum, A., Ziauddin, S., Khan, A., Sarfaraz, A.\
57224701518;50260965900;6602796864;56975724500;57203416011;\
An improved surveillance video forgery detection technique using sensor pattern noise and correlation of noise residues\
(2020) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 79 (9-10), pp. 5767-5788. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85076541794&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-019-08236-2&partnerID=40&md5=a191540e261f8f8626e4a3f9e2bdb1cd\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-019-08236-2\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, COMSATS University Islamabad, Islamabad, Pakistan\
ABSTRACT: Digital videos have become an important aspect of our lives lately, from a personal memorable to surveillance videos which can be presented in a court as an evidence now, this video evidence can be very important for the court of law and the investigators to understand the events as they occurred. Huge inventions in the video editing world have resulted in a margin of doubt, to the point where courts are now reluctant to accept any video evidence in to their case files, as for a digital video to be presented as an evidence, it\'92s integrity and authenticity is very important. This progression in technology can push the courts to a point where they refuse to trust anything that was caught on a video. Thus, more efforts have to be made in the video forensics world to avoid such a future. It has been shown that sources induce their specific noise patterns (i.e. Sensor pattern noise) to the captured media, and these patterns can be used to trace the source sensor and also to detect any forgeries. Acquiring SPN (sensor pattern noise) consists of two steps, first to get noise residues by subtracting denoised frames from the actual frames taken from the sample data and then to average those noise residues to get the sensor pattern noise. Problem arises when the attacker can also extract sensor pattern noise or has access to it. The attacker can induce SPN in forged frames which will prevent detection using the previous SPN based detection technique. This paper first proposes how the attacker can compensate a forged image by inducing SPN in it and then proposes a forgery detection technique for such a scenario which would not only rely on noise residue correlation with SPN but correlation with noise residue from the previous frame as well. We first estimate sensor pattern noise based on locally adaptive discrete cosine transform, then we correlate noise residue of frame n under investigation with the sensor pattern noise and with the noise residue of the previous frame n-1 as well. Now, even if the attacker compensates the forged frame by inducing SPN in it, the inter-frame continuity of noise shall be disturbed hence identified. Simulations using benchmark dataset for SPN extraction technique and custom dataset for video forgery detection, show that this methodology successfully detects any forgeries and locate their positions in the normal case and in the case where SPN is induced in the forged frames as well. \'a9 2019, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forgery;  Sensor pattern noise;  Video forensics;  Video forgery\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 226\
Ma, Z., Jiang, M., Huang, W.\
7403601135;54079891200;57203486530;\
Trusted forensics scheme based on digital watermark algorithm in intelligent VANET\
(2020) Neural Computing and Applications, 32 (6), pp. 1665-1678. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85066010616&doi=10.1007%2fs00521-019-04246-1&partnerID=40&md5=efa42deac9987685a4d3669f1c7cbd9a\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s00521-019-04246-1\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Cyberspace Security, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing, 100876, China; \
Audio and Video Department, The Third Research Institute of China Electronics Technology Corporation, Beijing, 100015, China; \
Shenzhen Datong Industrial Co., Ltd., Shenzhen, 518000, China\
ABSTRACT: Trusted forensics is one of the most important problems in VANET, and it often needs continuous video monitoring, once break out emergent vehicle accidents, then specific staff members take steps for forensics to obtain facts and define responsibility. Traditional forensics exists problems of inaccurate information, unfair responsibility definition and risk of leakage of user\'92s privacy. To solve the above problem, in this paper, we proposed a trusted forensics scheme based on digital image watermark in intelligent VANET, in which we proposed technical and fair algorithms for trusted forensics, and the trusted forensics scheme includes basic forensics parameter data obtaining critical forensics data automatic generation and forensics data extraction. Once there vehicle accident occurred, the forensics system first obtains the location, timestamp, forensics device data as basic forensics parameter data, and then, it embeds the forensics parameter as watermark into the real-time vehicle accident photograph by the proposed digital watermark algorithm, and thus, the real-time and undeniable forensics data are automatic generated as evidence; when necessary, the forensics system can extract the evidence data and watermark data from the critical forensics data. The proposed scheme can detect the content integrity of image data and even find out tampering mark when the image data are tampered. Additionally, we used neural network algorithm for vehicle license plate recognition and rapid vehicle information gathering. Finally, experiments evaluations manifest the proposed is forensics scheme is secure, robust, and efficient in vehicle forensics. \'a9 2019, Springer-Verlag London Ltd., part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital watermark;  Security;  Trusted forensics;  VANET\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 227\
Deshpande, A.U., Harish, A.N., Singh, S., Verma, V., Khanna, N.\
57216687993;57216688505;57216687203;57203424380;14045199500;\
Neural network based block-level detection of same quality factor double JPEG compression\
(2020) 2020 7th International Conference on Signal Processing and Integrated Networks, SPIN 2020, art. no. 9070977, pp. 828-833. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85084286630&doi=10.1109%2fSPIN48934.2020.9070977&partnerID=40&md5=ddd8759312ee3f5f95025be82d0da91d\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SPIN48934.2020.9070977\
AFFILIATIONS: Indian Institute of Technology Gandhinagar(IITGN), Multimedia Analysis and Security (MANAS) Lab Electrical Engineering, Gujarat, India\
ABSTRACT: Detecting double JPEG compression with the same quality factor is an open research problem in image forensics. The subtle artifacts of double JPEG compression with the same quantization matrices are often indistinguishable by traditional approaches such as histogram-based feature extraction. Existing approaches fail to effectively classify smaller size patches, due to the absence of sufficient information at smaller scales. To tackle this, we propose a new feature based on the difference of quantized DCT coefficients, which is relatively invariant to the size of the image or image patch. For classification, we utilize the multi-layer-perceptron (MLP) network. We compare our results on multiple patch sizes and quality factors, on the UCID dataset with the existing approaches. Using our proposed feature in conjugation with the existing feature vector along with the use of MLP, we observed a maximum of 1.52% increase in accuracy for smaller sized patches (128 \'d7 128), compressed with a quality factor of 60. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Double JPEG compression detection;  Forgery detection;  Multi-layer-perceptron (MLP);  Quantized DCT coefficients;  Statistical features\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 228\
Zhang, Y., Song, W., Wu, F., Han, H., Zhang, L.\
57192964261;25624085700;56202067500;56804175200;55709167500;\
Revealing the traces of nonaligned double JPEG compression in digital images\
(2020) Optik, 204, art. no. 164196, . Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85077783545&doi=10.1016%2fj.ijleo.2020.164196&partnerID=40&md5=722e0f4e5d4fb0f460892b9897dd7e27\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.ijleo.2020.164196\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electronic and Electrical Engineering, Shanghai University of Engineering Science, Shanghai, 201620, China; \
Shanghai Key Laboratory of Integrated Administration Technologies for Information Security, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China\
ABSTRACT: JPEG standard has been widely applied in many image acquisition devices and image editing tools. Identifying the authenticity of JPEG images is receiving significant attention in image forensics. In many JPEG image splicing forgeries, the forged regions have always experienced the JPEG compression twice with inconsistent block segmentations (hereinafter referred to as nonaligned double JPEG compression). In this paper, an effective method to reveal the traces of the nonaligned double JPEG compression is proposed. The high-order co-occurrence statistics are utilized to model the underlying intra-block and inter-block dependencies of JPEG quantized DCT coefficients. The entropies of the high-order co-occurrence matrices are computed and treated as the discriminative features to identify the presence of nonaligned double JPEG compression. The experiment results have shown that the proposed approach outperforms several existing methods for low resolution (small size) images. \'a9 2020 Elsevier GmbH\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital image forensics;  High-order co-occurrence statistics;  Image-splicing forgery;  Nonaligned double JPEG compression;  Quantization artifacts\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 229\
Rasool, N., Hussain, W.\
56487377400;57196449783;\
ForeStatistics: A windows-based feature-rich software program for performing statistics in forensic DNA analysis, paternity and relationship testing\
(2020) Forensic Science International, 307, art. no. 110142, . Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85077508554&doi=10.1016%2fj.forsciint.2020.110142&partnerID=40&md5=a3fb83622e0aa944c8cebe4201e025db\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2020.110142\
AFFILIATIONS: Sindh Forensic DNA and Serology Laboratory, ICCBS, University of Karachi, Karachi, 75270, Pakistan; \
National Center of Artificial Intelligence, Punjab University College of Information Technology, University of the Punjab, Lahore, Pakistan\
ABSTRACT: Forensic science is one of the most modern and applied fields of science, today and comprises of various domains. These include Fingerprints analysis, Questioned document analysis, Forensic DNA and serology, Anthropometry, Cyber and Digital forensics, and many other fields. All these fields aid the process of decision making in the courts of law and legal settings; however, DNA profiling and its analyses are one of the most important aspects of forensic science today. In Forensic DNA analysis, the statistical calculations are very important to estimate the conclusiveness of DNA evidence in forensic cases; and to establish paternity and relatedness in civil and criminal matters. These statistics, when performed manually, leave a chance of error or ambiguity in the calculation, and are hectic and time-taking. Therefore, the computer-aided approaches are opted in forensics to perform DNA statistics calculations. Keeping its importance in mind, a highly accurate windows-based software program namely ForeStatistics is proposed in this study. ForeStatistics is rich in features such as DNA statistical calculations, DNA profile management and its matching. The software can estimate random match probabilities for single-source profiles, combined probability of inclusion for mixed profiles, paternity index of a disputed child in duo and trio cases, paternity of the disputed child when the alleged father is related to mother or biological father and relatedness in cases of grandparents/grandchild, avuncular relation and cousin. It is validated through different protocols and the validation of ForeStatistics depicts that it is highly accurate in terms of performing DNA statistics or DNA profile matching. Thus, it is concluded, that ForeStatistics has a great utility in the field of Forensic DNA analysis and can help DNA scientists, in performing various DNA related statistics, accurately and very efficiently. ForeStatistics can be downloaded freely from (http://zeetu.org/forestatistics.html). \'a9 2020 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: CPI;  DNA statistics;  ForeStatistics;  Genotyping;  Kinship;  Likelihood;  Paternity;  RMP;  Sibship\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 230\
Fanfani, M., Iuliani, M., Bellavia, F., Colombo, C., Piva, A.\
55439858000;56685528500;33467469500;7102900394;7005293392;\
A vision-based fully automated approach to robust image cropping detection\
(2020) Signal Processing: Image Communication, 80, art. no. 115629, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85072564769&doi=10.1016%2fj.image.2019.115629&partnerID=40&md5=56921b15b93afa300053dabfdebd8e9c\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.image.2019.115629\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Information Engineering, University of Florence, Florence, Italy; \
FORLAB Multimedia Forensics Laboratory, University of Florence, Prato, Italy\
ABSTRACT: The definition of valid and robust methodologies for assessing the authenticity of digital information is nowadays critical to contrast social manipulation through the media. A key research topic in multimedia forensics is the development of methods for detecting tampered content in large image collections without any human intervention. This paper introduces AMARCORD (Automatic Manhattan-scene AsymmetRically CrOpped imageRy Detector), a fully automated detector for exposing evidences of asymmetrical image cropping on Manhattan-World scenes. The proposed solution estimates and exploits the camera principal point, i.e., a physical feature extracted directly from the image content that is quite insensitive to image processing operations, such as compression and resizing, typical of social media platforms. Robust computer vision techniques are employed throughout, so as to cope with large sources of noise in the data and improve detection performance. The method leverages a novel metric based on robust statistics, and is also capable to decide autonomously whether the image at hand is tractable or not. The results of an extensive experimental evaluation covering several cropping scenarios demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of our approach. \'a9 2019\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cropping detection;  Image content analysis;  Multimedia forensics;  Robust computer vision\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 231\
Frick, R.A., Zmudzinski, S., Steinebach, M.\
57218822170;8507602700;6602600975;\
Paper: Detecting \'93DeepFakes\'94 in H.264 video data using compression ghost artifacts\
(2020) IS and T International Symposium on Electronic Imaging Science and Technology, 2020 (4), art. no. 116, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85094913030&doi=10.2352%2fISSN.2470-1173.2020.4.MWSF-116&partnerID=40&md5=d153bc52c6db1f519b24697b44ae54a5\
\
DOI: 10.2352/ISSN.2470-1173.2020.4.MWSF-116\
AFFILIATIONS: Fraunhofer Institute for Secure Information Technology, SIT, Darmstadt, Germany\
ABSTRACT: In recent years, the number of forged videos circulating on the Internet has immensely increased. Software and services to create such forgeries have become more and more accessible to the public. In this regard, the risk of malicious use of forged videos has risen. This work proposes an approach based on the Ghost effect knwon from image forensics for detecting forgeries in videos that can replace faces in video sequences or change the mimic of a face. The experimental results show that the proposed approach is able to identify forgery in high-quality encoded video content. \'a9 2020, Society for Imaging Science and Technology.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 232\
Fang, S., Sebro, R.A., Stamm, M.C.\
57219717029;8776798200;34870520200;\
A deep learning approach to MRI scanner manufacturer and model identification\
(2020) IS and T International Symposium on Electronic Imaging Science and Technology, 2020 (4), art. no. 217, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85094905270&doi=10.2352%2fISSN.2470-1173.2020.4.MWSF-217&partnerID=40&md5=9b9d56b73b5b70598d0e3afd40ae4ea0\
\
DOI: 10.2352/ISSN.2470-1173.2020.4.MWSF-217\
AFFILIATIONS: Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA, United States; \
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, United States\
ABSTRACT: Forensics research has developed several techniques to identify the model and manufacturer of a digital image or videos source camera. However, to the best of our knowledge, no work has been performed to identify the manufacturer and model of the scanner that captured an MRI image. MRI source identification can have several important applications ranging from scientific fraud discovery, exposing issues around anonymity and privacy of medical records, protecting against malicious tampering of medical images, and validating AI-based diagnostic techniques whose performance varies on different MRI scanners. In this paper, we propose a new CNN-based approach to learn forensic traces left by an MRI scanner and use these traces to identify the manufacturer and model of the scanner that captured an MRI image. Additionally, we identify an issue called weight divergence that can occur when training CNNs using a constrained convolutional layer and propose three new correction functions to protect against this. Our experimental results show we can identify an MRI scanners manufacturer with 97.88% accuracy and its model with 91.07% accuracy. Additionally, we show that our proposed correction functions can noticeably improve our CNNs accuracy when performing scanner model identification. \'a9 2020, Society for Imaging Science and Technology.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 233\
Rani, D.R., Geethakumari, G.\
56278752200;15768843300;\
Secure data transmission and detection of anti-forensic attacks in cloud environment using MECC and DLMNN\
(2020) Computer Communications, 150, pp. 799-810. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85077491533&doi=10.1016%2fj.comcom.2019.11.048&partnerID=40&md5=44ca10b4feee625252f87348e2ae952e\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.comcom.2019.11.048\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Information systems, BITS Pilani \'96 Hyderabad Campus, Hyderabad, India; \
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, VFSTR Deemed to be University, Vadlamudi, Guntur, India\
ABSTRACT: Anti-forensics is a set of techniques and measures adopted by an attacker aimed at compromising the digital investigation process in a computational environment. Cloud computing, which is an environment providing on demand resources to users, is susceptible to anti-forensic attacks. An anti-forensic attacker in the cloud can influence the cloud forensic process and tamper with evidences, causing damage to the investigation. Though some solutions have been proposed against anti-forensic attacks in cloud, there is a need to secure the evidences while in transit as well as in storage. In this work, we propose efficient algorithms for secure data (evidence) transmission and early detection of Anti-Forensic Attack (AFA). First, the data packets are compressed using a B-tree Huffman Encoding (BHE) algorithm; next, the packet marking technique is implemented to secure the IP address of the sender. For securely sending the data, we propose the Modified Elliptic curve cryptography (MECC) algorithm which encrypts the data packets and transmits it to a receiver. At the receiver side, the training is done using a Deep Learning Modified Neural Network (DLMNN) classifier, which tests the received data packet IP-address. Based on the IP-address of the sender, DLMNN identifies whether the received packet is an packet attacked or a non-attacked one. After the identification of the data packets, the decryption and de-compression of non-attacked data packets are done to obtain the original information. The original evidence information is further analyzed for investigation purposes. Experimental results shown by the proposed method are weighed against the prevailing techniques for performace comparison. \'a9 2019 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensic attacks;  B-tree Huffman Encoding (BHE);  Cuttle Fish optimization Algorithm (CFA);  Deep Learning Modified Neural Network (DLMNN);  Modified Elliptic Curve Cryptography (MECC)\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 234\
Zahradnikova, B., Budjac, R., Schreiber, P., Rydzi, S.\
56646476400;57218577598;57196491511;57214352438;\
Directed Evolution of Human Facial Images\
(2020) IFAC-PapersOnLine, 53 (2), pp. 16518-16523. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85119594922&doi=10.1016%2fj.ifacol.2020.12.768&partnerID=40&md5=3b8cf524adfdcd20f149ef0dc94dfc52\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.ifacol.2020.12.768\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Applied Informatics, Automation and Mechatronics, Faculty of Materials Science and Technology, Slovak University of Technology, J. Bottu 25, Trnava, 91701, Slovakia\
ABSTRACT: In a criminal investigation, situations are quite often where no evidence but a witness is available. In these cases, facial composite is a tool applied in search for a perpetrator of a crime. Facial composites are images of faces drafted by a forensic technician requiring a precise description provided by a witness. Despites deploying the computational technique into the process, the naming rates remain very low (not reaching 5%). In this paper, we present a system developed according to the latest research on facial perception. Incorporating the interactive evolutionary algorithm, whole face images are automatically generated based on the witness's selection. The system is presented in the latest tested version, providing information on the selected EA as well as several image manipulation algorithms inclusive of method for age progression and hair manipulation. Besides describing applied methods and in-office testing, testing in simulated field conditions is part of the paper. \'a9 2020 Elsevier B.V.. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: evolutionary algorithm;  face perception;  facial composite system;  forensic system\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 235\
Sabir, E., Jaiswal, A., AbdAlmageed, W., Natarajan, P.\
57197848610;56717277600;55953857600;35607445600;\
MEG: Multi-evidence GNN for multimodal semantic forensics\
(2020) Proceedings - International Conference on Pattern Recognition, art. no. 9413053, pp. 1529-1535. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85110506493&doi=10.1109%2fICPR48806.2021.9413053&partnerID=40&md5=251e63ef4aaf5febf4d7fa433d62e9c7\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICPR48806.2021.9413053\
AFFILIATIONS: USC Information Sciences Institute, Marina Del Rey, California, United States\
ABSTRACT: Fake news often involves semantic manipulations across modalities such as image, text, location etc and requires the development of multimodal semantic forensics for its detection. Recent research has centered the problem around images, calling it image repurposing - where a digitally unmanipulated image is semantically misrepresented by means of its accompanying multimodal metadata such as captions, location, etc. The image and metadata together comprise a multimedia package. The problem setup requires algorithms to perform multimodal semantic forensics to authenticate a query multimedia package using a reference dataset of potentially related packages as evidences. Existing methods are limited to using a single evidence (retrieved package), which ignores potential performance improvement from the use of multiple evidences. In this work, we introduce a novel graph neural network based model for multimodal semantic forensics, which effectively utilizes multiple retrieved packages as evidences and is scalable with the number of evidences. We compare the scalability and performance of our model against existing methods. Experimental results show that the proposed model outperforms existing state-of-the-art algorithms with an error reduction of up to 25%. \'a9 2020 IEEE\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 236\
Salman, M., Uhl, A.\
57226112941;7005841206;\
Countering anti-forensics of SIFT-based copy-move detection\
(2020) Proceedings - International Conference on Pattern Recognition, art. no. 9413012, pp. 2701-2707. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85110434447&doi=10.1109%2fICPR48806.2021.9413012&partnerID=40&md5=48e65fe5e17288a17bf68b3515487b86\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICPR48806.2021.9413012\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Sciences, University of Salzburg, Salzburg, Austria\
ABSTRACT: Forensic analysis is used to detect image forgeries e.g. the copy move forgery and the object removal forgery, respectively. Counter forensic techniques (aka anti-forensic methods to fool the forensic analyst by concealing traces of manipulation) have become popular in the game of cat and mouse between the analyst and the attacker. Classical anti-forensic techniques targeting on SIFT keypoints have been established with particular emphasis on keypoint removal in the context of copy move forgery detection. In this paper we propose a forensic approach countering SIFT keypoint removal by changing to a different type of keypoints in forensic analysis, clearly demonstrating benefits over traditional SIFT keypoint oriented techniques. \'a9 2020 IEEE\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 237\
Frank, J., Eisenhofer, T., Sch\'f6nherr, L., Fischer, A., Kolossa, D., Holz, T.\
57201063384;57219692387;57193707522;57190948135;6506589148;53263832100;\
Leveraging frequency analysis for deep fake image recognition\
(2020) 37th International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML 2020, PartF168147-5, pp. 3205-3216. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85102181887&partnerID=40&md5=c409977da956ec262d43e67465346fd8\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Ruhr-University Bochum, Horst G\'f6rtz Institute for IT-Security, Bochum, Germany\
ABSTRACT: Deep neural networks can generate images that are astonishingly realistic, so much so that it is often hard for humans to distinguish them from actual photos. These achievements have been largely made possible by Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs). While deep fake images have been thoroughly investigated in the image domain\'97a classical approach from the area of image forensics\'97an analysis in the frequency domain has been missing so far. In this paper, we address this shortcoming and our results reveal that in frequency space, GAN-generated images exhibit severe artifacts that can be easily identified. We perform a comprehensive analysis, showing that these artifacts are consistent across different neural network architectures, data sets, and resolutions. In a further investigation, we demonstrate that these artifacts are caused by upsampling operations found in all current GAN architectures, indicating a structural and fundamental problem in the way images are generated via GANs. Based on this analysis, we demonstrate how the frequency representation can be used to identify deep fake images in an automated way, surpassing state-of-the-art methods. Copyright 2020 by the author(s).\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 238\
Qatawneh, M., Almobaideen, W., Khanafseh, M., Qatawneh, I.A.\
22935836600;55664726600;57206668323;57223391279;\
DFIM: A new digital forensics investigation model for internet of things\
(2020) Journal of Theoretical and Applied Information Technology, 97 (24), pp. 3850-3867. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85101309392&partnerID=40&md5=27686a61ccaaa1c3fea8b1fc0aa7776c\
\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Jordan, Department of Computer Science, Jordan; \
Rochester Institute of Technology, United Arab Emirates; \
Al Ain University of Science and Technology College of Law, United Arab Emirates\
ABSTRACT: The Internet of Things (IoT) smart devices have been used widely in several applications such as healthcare, education, environment, transportation, smart city, etc. These objects are resource-constrained devices which involve lacks regarding security and may lead to cyber-crime. Therefore, the IoT devices may contain evidence that are considered as an important need to investigators and can be admitted in courts. To tackle this problem most current research focuses on security issues for different IoT architectures rather than approaches and techniques of forensic acquisition and analysis for IoT objects. In this paper, we propose a new Digital Forensics Investigation Model for IoT (DFIM). The DFIM has two main components: The Data Provider Zone (DPZ) which responsible for grouping all data gathered by sensor nodes into a set of groups, where each group contains data or documents related to each other, and the investigation authority which receives the requests from the claimers for investigation, check the validation of the request, and finally select the appropriate investigators. In order to improve the IoT forensics investigation process, the proposed DFIM consists of seven stages and takes into consideration a set of principles such as security, privacy accuracy, performance, data reduction, Openness and transparency. \'a9 2019 Little Lion Scientific. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Committee Of Investigators;  Examination Stage;  Investigation Authority;  Investigation Process;  IOT Forensics;  The Internet Of Things\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 239\
Kumar, A., Singh, G., Kansal, A., Singh, K.\
57221101998;57209908810;36660766500;26635862000;\
Digital image forensic approach to counter the JPEG anti-forensic attacks\
(2020) IEEE Access, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85099107995&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2020.3048246&partnerID=40&md5=797d88ea93966de60d64633ebc902977\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3048246\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, TIET, Patiala, Punjab, India.; \
Computer Science Department, IIT, Ropar, Punjab, India.; \
Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, TIET, Patiala, Punjab, India. (e-mail: akansal@thapar.edu)\
ABSTRACT: Rapid advancement in digital image processing tools and software&#x2019;s has made it extremely simple to manipulate the digital images without leaving any footprints. It becomes a hot issue about the security and threat to society with increasing growth of social media. JPEG compression format has been widely used in most of the digital cameras. The investigation of JPEG compression footprints can play an important role in image tampering detection. In this paper, a novel method is proposed to detect the JPEG compression. The proposed forensic scheme comprises of two steps i.e. selection of target difference image and generation of second-order statistical features by evaluating the Markov Transition Probability Matrices (MTPMs) for both intra and inter-block DCT domain. Finally, the resultant feature is used to train the SVM classifier for classification purposes. The experiment results on UCID and BOSSBase datasets show that the proposed forensic technique based on MTPM is capable of detecting the JPEG compression traces even in the presence of anti-forensic attacks. CCBY\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Correlation;  Digital image forensics;  Digital images;  Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT);  Discrete cosine transforms;  Forensics;  Image coding;  JPEG compression;  Markov Transition Probability Matrices (MTPMs);  Statistical analysis;  Transform coding\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Article in Press\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 240\
Velmurugan, S., Subashini, T.S.\
57212990420;24597907900;\
Patch-match based detection of copy-move forgeries using rotation invariant features\
(2020) Materials Today: Proceedings, 33, pp. 4686-4690. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85098563861&doi=10.1016%2fj.matpr.2020.08.345&partnerID=40&md5=b557d0c3263323bbe357687324c02f84\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.matpr.2020.08.345\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer and Information Science, Annamalai University, Annamalainagar, Tamilnadu, India; \
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Annamalai University, Annamalainagar, Tamilnadu, India\
ABSTRACT: As society increasingly relies on computers and digital data, the judiciary and other businesses are highly dependent on digital forensics for identification, preservation, examination and analysis of digital evidence such as digital photographs and digital documents. The wide range of powerful image editing tools that are evolving day by day helps to modify the image content, or to tamper the image with ease and does not require any expertise. The most challenging form of tampering to be detected is the copy - move forgery. The process of tampering images by copying one portion of the and pasting it in some other region of the same image is referred to as copy-move forgery. To make the copy-move forgery detection problem further complex, variations like scaling, rotation, flipping, etc. may be made over the copied region before it is pasted. Even those of us with the sharpest eyes may easily be fooled with such fake images and this is one of the major problems in courtrooms and in press publications. As such the integrity as well of authenticity of images is highly important where decision making or judgements have to be made based on the information obtained through images. Rotation- invariant features computed densely on the image and patch-match algorithm is proposed in this paper, to detect copy-move forgeries. The proposed detection algorithm is executed in three steps. Firstly, Circular Harmonic Transform based rotation invariant Zernike Moment and FMT features are computed for each pixel of interest. Secondly matching of dense features, is carried out using patch matching algorithm and finally post-processing is carried out to minimize the false positives. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed approach is efficient in detecting copy move forgeries subjected to various types of geometric distortions. \'a9 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. Selection and peer-review under responsibility of the scientific committee of the International Conference on Nanotechnology: Ideas, Innovation and Industries.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Circular Harmonic Transform;  Copy-move forgery;  FMT;  Patchmatch;  ZM\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 241\
Jordaan, J., Bradshaw, K.\
36647560000;36650469800;\
A Critical Evaluation of Validation Practices in the Forensic Acquisition of Digital Evidence in South Africa\
(2020) Communications in Computer and Information Science, 1339, pp. 129-143. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85098248790&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-66039-0_9&partnerID=40&md5=89cc4d7333c2b518e7cbe7db9a95f64b\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-66039-0_9\
AFFILIATIONS: DFIRLABS, East London, South Africa; \
Rhodes University, Grahamstown, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: Accepted digital forensics practice requires the tools used in the forensic acquisition of digital evidence to be validated, meaning that the tools perform as intended. In terms of Sect.\'a015 of the Electronic Communications and Transactions Act 25 of 2002 in South Africa, validation would contribute to the reliability of the digital evidence. A sample of digital forensic practitioners from South Africa was studied to determine to what extent they make use of validated forensic tools during the acquisition process, and how these tools are proven to be validated. The research identified significant concerns, with no validation done, or no proof of validation done, bringing into question the reliability of the digital evidence in court. It is concerning that the justice system itself is not picking this up, meaning that potentially unreliable digital evidence is used in court. \'a9 2020, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Forensic acquisition;  Forensic imaging;  Validation;  Write blocker\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 242\
Al-Dhaqm, A., Razak, S.A., Ikuesan, R.A., Kebande, V.R., Siddique, K.\
56516988400;57202120585;57200145399;56410850700;57191228422;\
A review of mobile forensic investigation process models\
(2020) IEEE Access, 8, art. no. 09160916, pp. 173359-173375. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85097978190&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2020.3014615&partnerID=40&md5=b473ce6180abcc6dd866e506833e1ad8\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3014615\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Engineering, School of Computing, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia (UTM), Skudai, 81310, Malaysia; \
Department of Computer Science, Aden Community College, Aden, Yemen; \
Science and Technology Division, Department of Cyber and Networking Security, School of Information Technology, Community College of Qatar, Doha, Qatar; \
Computer Science and Media Technology Department, Malm\'f6 Universitet, 1, Malm\'f6, 211 18, Sweden; \
School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Information and Communication Technology Department, Xiamen University Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur, 43900, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: Mobile Forensics (MF) field uses prescribed scientific approaches with a focus on recovering Potential Digital Evidence (PDE) from mobile devices leveraging forensic techniques. Consequently, increased proliferation, mobile-based services, and the need for new requirements have led to the development of the MF field, which has in the recent past become an area of importance. In this article, the authors take a step to conduct a review on Mobile Forensics Investigation Process Models (MFIPMs) as a step towards uncovering the MF transitions as well as identifying open and future challenges. Based on the study conducted in this article, a review of the literature revealed that there are a few MFIPMs that are designed for solving certain mobile scenarios, with a variety of concepts, investigation processes, activities, and tasks. A total of 100 MFIPMs were reviewed, to present an inclusive and up-to-date background of MFIPMs. Also, this study proposes a Harmonized Mobile Forensic Investigation Process Model (HMFIPM) for the MF field to unify and structure whole redundant investigation processes of the MF field. The paper also goes the extra mile to discuss the state of the art of mobile forensic tools, open and future challenges from a generic standpoint. The results of this study find direct relevance to forensic practitioners and researchers who could leverage the comprehensiveness of the developed processes for investigation. \'a9 2020 Royal Society of Chemistry. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Investigation process model;  Mobile forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 243\
Lin, X., Li, C.-T.\
55204959700;26648782200;\
PRNU-Based Content Forgery Localization Augmented with Image Segmentation\
(2020) IEEE Access, 8, art. no. 9284430, pp. 222645-222659. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85097950013&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2020.3042780&partnerID=40&md5=78fcfea447d2d46fd5f930d6ccb50531\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3042780\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information Technology, Deakin University, Geelong Waurn Ponds Campus, Waurn Ponds, VIC, Australia\
ABSTRACT: The advances in image editing and retouching technology have enabled an unskilled person to easily produce visually indistinguishable forged images. To detect and localize such forgeries, many image forensic tools rely on visually imperceptible clues, e.g. the subtle traces or artifacts introduced during image acquisition and processing, and slide a regular, typically square, detection window across the image to search for discrepancies of specific clues. Such a sliding-window paradigm confines the explorable neighborhood to a regular grid and inevitably limits its capability in localizing forgeries in a broad range of shapes. While image segmentation that generates segments adhering to object boundaries might be a promising alternative to the sliding window-based approach, it is generally believed that the potential of the segmentation-based detection scheme is hindered by object removal forgeries where meaningful segments are often unavailable. In this work, we take forgery localization based on photo-response non-uniformity (PRNU) noise as an example and propose a segmentation-based forgery localization scheme that exploits the local homogeneity of visually indiscernible clues to mitigate the limitations of existing segmentation approaches that are merely based on visually perceptible content. We further propose a multi-orientation localization scheme that integrates the forgery probabilities obtained with image segmentation and multi-orientated detection windows. The multi-orientation scheme aggregates the complementary strengths of image segmentation and multi-oriented detection window in localizing the object insert and object removal forgeries. Experimental results on a public realistic tampering image dataset demonstrate that the proposed segmentation-based and multi-orientation forgery localization schemes outperform existing state-of-the-art PRNU-based forgery localizers in terms of both region and boundary $F_\{1\}$ scores. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital image forensics;  image forgery localization;  image segmentation;  multi-orientation detection;  multimedia security;  photo-response non-uniformity noise\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 244\
Yu, I.-J., Nam, S.-H., Ahn, W., Kwon, M.-J., Lee, H.-K.\
57193720944;56218302700;57203792707;57219765100;7501475723;\
Manipulation Classification for JPEG Images Using Multi-Domain Features\
(2020) IEEE Access, 8, art. no. 9258899, pp. 210837-210854. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85097646339&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2020.3037735&partnerID=40&md5=fbcc8df62a72bfc10614eddff103132f\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3037735\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computing, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST), Daejeon, 34141, South Korea; \
Digital Innotech Company, Daejeon, 34184, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Image forensics comprises the analyses and classifications of manipulations that have been applied to images. The ability to classify various manipulations that have been employed in the process of forgery is essential. Techniques to identify multiple manipulations applied to uncompressed images have been reported thus far, but the forensic approach for JPEG images compressed with various qualities has not been proposed. In this paper, we propose the manipulation classification network (MCNet) to exploit multi-domain features of the spatial, frequency, and compression domains. The proposed MCNet learns several forensic features for each domain through a multi-stream structure and distinguishes manipulations by comprehensively analyzing the fused features. Our work jointly considers visual artifacts caused by image manipulations and compression artifacts due to JPEG compression; therefore, rich forensic features can be explored and learned in the training phase. To enable forgery analysis in the real-world environment, data were generated based on twenty types of manipulation algorithms and various compression parameters. To demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed MCNet, extensive experiments were conducted using state-of-the-art baselines. Compared to these baselines, our proposed method outperforms in terms of multi-class manipulation classification. In addition, we experimentally proved that the fine-tuned model based on the multi-class manipulation task was effective for different forensic tasks such as DeepFake detection or integrity authentication of JPEG images. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: convolutional neural network (CNN);  Image forensics;  JPEG compression;  manipulation classification;  multi-domain features\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 245\
Akbar, M.H., Sunardi, Riadi, I.\
57220751771;24825358100;55847330600;\
Analysis of Steganographic on Digital Evidence using General Computer Forensic Investigation Model Framework\
(2020) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 11 (11), pp. 315-323. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85097543180&doi=10.14569%2fIJACSA.2020.0111141&partnerID=40&md5=fff1e09c37601293e88d34a8f780e583\
\
DOI: 10.14569/IJACSA.2020.0111141\
AFFILIATIONS: Master Program of Informatics Universitas Ahmad Dahlan Yogyakarta, Indonesia; \
Electrical Engineering Department, Universitas Ahmad Dahlan Yogyakarta, Indonesia; \
Information System Department, Universitas Ahmad Dahlan Yogyakarta, Indonesia\
ABSTRACT: Steganography is one of the anti-forensic techniques used by criminals to hide information in other messages which can cause problems in the investigation process and difficulties in obtaining original information evidence on the digital crime. Digital forensic analysts are required ability to find and extract the messages that have been inserted by using proper tools. The purpose of this research is to analyze the hidden digital evidence using steganography techniques. This research uses the static forensics method by applying five stages in the Generic Forensics Investigation Model framework, namely pre-process, acquisition & preservation, analysis, presentation, and post-process as well as extracting files that have been infiltrated based on case scenarios involving digital crime. The tools used are FTK Imager, Autopsy, WinHex, Hiderman, and StegSpy. The results on the steganographic file insertion experiment of 20 files indicate that StegSpy and Hiderman are effective on the steganographic analysis of digital evidence. StegSpy can detect the presence of secret messages with 85% success rate. The extraction process using Hiderman for 18 files with containing steganographic messages had 100% successful. \'a9 2020. All Rights Reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: anti forensics;  general computer forensic investigation model;  hiderman;  Steganography\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopes\
\
ID: 246\
Akotoye, F.X.K., Adeyemi, R.I., Venter, H.S.\
57201633061;57218094485;7005841055;\
A study on problems of behaviour-based user attribution in computer forensic investigation\
(2020) European Conference on Information Warfare and Security, ECCWS, 2020-June, pp. 458-465. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85094669926&doi=10.34190%2fEWS.20.117&partnerID=40&md5=a14f9ba41f83e466f0763c277dab9b37\
\
DOI: 10.34190/EWS.20.117\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Pretoria, South Africa; \
Cyber and Network Security, School of Information Technology, Community College of Qatar, Qatar\
ABSTRACT: The origin of an attack is essential for implementing mitigating measures and pursuing legal redress for the victim or affected entity. Identifying human agents of cybercrime, termed user attribution in computer forensic investigation, is important for purposes of achieving prosecution at the law court and to deter further attacks. Attaining user attribution during digital investigation remains largely elusive due to the volatile nature of digital artefacts and the susceptibility of such artefacts to deliberate or non-deliberate manipulations. The ease with which attackers can hide their identity through employing evasive and deceptive methods, as well as strict legal requirements, further worsens the task of achieving user attribution. There is the need, therefore, to explore techniques proposed in the domain to measure their effectiveness and identify the gaps that exist and motivate further directions toward addressing user attribution problem. This work presents a systematic review of behaviour-based user attribution techniques proposed for digital forensic investigation. It highlights features adopted for recognition and evaluates their effectiveness in distinguishing between users. The methods are categorized into application dynamics, online dynamics, mouse dynamics and keystroke dynamics, which are evaluated based on recognition rate. The observation presented in this study is relevant to researchers and professionals who seek clarity of insight into the user attribution challenge. Furthermore, the findings in this study provide a baseline for the development of a robust user attribution solution that can scale through legal rigors and scrutiny. \'a9 2020 Curran Associates Inc.. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Attribution;  Biometric Systems;  Cyber Crime;  Digital Forensics;  User Attribution\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 247\
Pieterse, H.\
55487079900;\
Mobile forensics: Beyond traditional sources of digital evidence\
(2020) European Conference on Information Warfare and Security, ECCWS, 2020-June, pp. 295-303. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85094656888&doi=10.34190%2fEWS.20.042&partnerID=40&md5=369f261d9e535fc9f4fd5d3901ed1c27\
\
DOI: 10.34190/EWS.20.042\
AFFILIATIONS: Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, Pretoria, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: Mobility is the future and people of the 21st century are continuously witnessing the fast-paced growth of mobile technology. The ever-increasing storage capacity of mobile devices allows for the capturing of the user activities in digital format. Traditionally, such digital data include contacts, text and instant messages, call history, electronic mail, web browsing history, documents and geographical data. These rich sources of digital data present on mobile devices become increasingly important when mobile devices are linked to civil or criminal digital investigations. However, these sheer quantities of traditional digital data available on mobile devices often cause other forms of noteworthy digital data to go unnoticed. This paper investigates and identifies other available sources of digital data present on mobile devices that can be of value to digital forensic investigations. The study focuses exclusively on the Android operating system and presents an extensive evaluation of Android\'92s file system. Furthermore, the study aims to locate, extract and utilise non-traditional or contemporary sources of digital data, such as log files, usage statistics and event data, as potential digital evidence in civil or criminal digital investigations. The outcome of the study leads to the construction of the new Pre-Analysed Device Snapshot (PADS) model, which provides a summary of the current state of the mobile device at the time of acquiring the device. \'a9 2020 Curran Associates Inc.. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android;  Data Analysis;  Digital Evidence;  Digital Forensics;  Mobile Forensics;  Modelling;  Smartphones\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 248\
Chen, C., Xiong, Z., Liu, X., Wu, F.\
55651649900;57207267772;35793096800;7403465570;\
Camera trace erasing\
(2020) Proceedings of the IEEE Computer Society Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, art. no. 9156605, pp. 2947-2956. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85094631837&doi=10.1109%2fCVPR42600.2020.00302&partnerID=40&md5=4f3aabba839e9aff95db9323196e15b0\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CVPR42600.2020.00302\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Science and Technology of China, China; \
Michigan State University, United States\
ABSTRACT: Camera trace is a unique noise produced in digital imaging process. Most existing forensic methods analyze camera trace to identify image origins. In this paper, we address a new low-level vision problem, camera trace erasing, to reveal the weakness of trace-based forensic methods. A comprehensive investigation on existing anti-forensic methods reveals that it is non-trivial to effectively erase camera trace while avoiding the destruction of content signal. To reconcile these two demands, we propose Siamese Trace Erasing (SiamTE), in which a novel hybrid loss is designed on the basis of Siamese architecture for network training. Specifically, we propose embedded similarity, truncated fidelity, and cross identity to form the hybrid loss. Compared with existing anti-forensic methods, SiamTE has a clear advantage for camera trace erasing, which is demonstrated in three representative tasks. Code and dataset are available at https://github.com/ngchc/CameraTE. \'a92020 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 249\
Bammey, Q., von Gioi, R.G., Morel, J.-M.\
57202995904;55664846900;57203072257;\
An adaptive neural network for unsupervised mosaic consistency analysis in image forensics\
(2020) Proceedings of the IEEE Computer Society Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, art. no. 9157017, pp. 14182-14192. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85094151726&doi=10.1109%2fCVPR42600.2020.01420&partnerID=40&md5=5cdeb1adae1699f312e7779dec018c2a\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CVPR42600.2020.01420\
AFFILIATIONS: CMLA, CNRS, ENS Paris-Saclay, Universit\'e9 Paris-Saclay, France\
ABSTRACT: Automatically finding suspicious regions in a potentially forged image by splicing, inpainting or copy-move remains a widely open problem. Blind detection neural networks trained on benchmark data are flourishing. Yet, these methods do not provide an explanation of their detections. The more traditional methods try to provide such evidence by pointing out local inconsistencies in the image noise, JPEG compression, chromatic aberration, or in the mosaic. In this paper we develop a blind method that can train directly on unlabelled and potentially forged images to point out local mosaic inconsistencies. To this aim we designed a CNN structure inspired from demosaicing algorithms and directed at classifying image blocks by their position in the image modulo (2 \'d7 2). Creating a diversified benchmark database using varied demosaicing methods, we explore the efficiency of the method and its ability to adapt quickly to any new data. \'a9 2020 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 250\
Leguesse, Y., Vella, M., Colombo, C., Hernandez-Castro, J.\
57202740299;16481565100;34879763400;12241916500;\
Reducing the Forensic Footprint with Android Accessibility Attacks\
(2020) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 12386 LNCS, pp. 22-38. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85092126003&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-59817-4_2&partnerID=40&md5=f86228bbb16ecf7b1fe5474a9f97d25d\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-59817-4_2\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, University of Malta, Msida, Malta; \
School of Computing, Cornwallis South, University of Kent, Canterbury, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Android accessibility features include a robust set of tools allowing developers to create apps for assisting people with disabilities. Unfortunately, this useful set of tools can also be abused and turned into an attack vector, providing malware with the ability to interact and read content from third-party apps. In this work, we are the first to study the impact that the stealthy exploitation of Android accessibility services can have on significantly reducing the forensic footprint of malware attacks, thus hindering both live and post-incident forensic investigations. We show that through Living off the Land (LotL) tactics, or by offering a malware-only substitute for attacks typically requiring more elaborate schemes, accessibility-based malware can be rendered virtually undetectable. In the LotL approach, we demonstrate accessibility-enabled SMS and command and control (C2) capabilities. As for the latter, we show a complete cryptocurrency wallet theft, whereby the accessibility trojan can hijack the entire withdrawal process of a widely used app, including two-factor authentication (2FA). In both cases, we demonstrate how the attacks result in significantly diminished forensic evidence when compared to similar attacks not employing accessibility tools, even to the extent of maintaining device take-over without requiring malware persistence. \'a9 2020, The Author(s).\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android accessibility attacks;  Android security;  Anti-forensics;  Malware detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 251\
Wang, X., Niu, S., Wang, H.\
57207046614;7103052211;57196432226;\
Contrast Adjustment Forensics Based on Second-Order Statistical and Deep Learning Features\
(2020) Communications in Computer and Information Science, 1253 CCIS, pp. 27-37. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85091486642&doi=10.1007%2f978-981-15-8086-4_3&partnerID=40&md5=c5780357c7822cb24e1c8a338ffbe973\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-981-15-8086-4_3\
AFFILIATIONS: Beijing Key Lab of Intelligent Telecommunication Software and Multimedia, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing, China\
ABSTRACT: Contrast adjustment (CA) is one of the most common digital image retouching methods. However, it is often used to hide the traces of tampering, and thus has become an indirect evidence of image forgery. Therefore, CA blind detection has attracted widespread attention in the field of image forensics in recent years. Considering forensic methods based on first-order statistical features are vulnerable to encountering anti-forensic and other operation attacks, an second-order statistical-based CA forensics method using improved Gray-Level Co-occurrence Matrix (GLCM) network is proposed. Different from conventional CNN, which usually takes the image as input, this method can convert input images of different resolution into a uniform size GLCM matrix, in which GLCM adds four more directions to the traditional direction, and then learns the distribution features from GLCM through CNN layers and classifies them. Through active learning the hierarchical feature representation and optimizing the classification results, the proposed network is more suitable for detecting contrast adjustment tampering. Experimental results show that the proposed method can not only detect traditional CA, but also detect the CA image of anti-forensic attacks, and its performance is better than conventional forensic methods. \'a9 2020, Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Adversarial image forensics;  Contrast adjustment tampering;  Convolutional neural networks;  Gray-Level Co-occurrence Matrix (GLCM)\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 252\
Wagner, J., Rasin, A.\
56768652900;9738559600;\
A framework to reverse engineer database memory by abstracting memory areas\
(2020) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 12391 LNCS, pp. 304-319. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85091476600&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-59003-1_20&partnerID=40&md5=c1d22ddc725322853003ac4bfc737e6a\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-59003-1_20\
AFFILIATIONS: University of New Orleans, New Orleans, LA  70148, United States; \
DePaul University, Chicago, IL  60604, United States\
ABSTRACT: The contents of RAM in an operating system (OS) are a critical source of evidence for malware detection or system performance profiling. Digital forensics focused on reconstructing OS RAM structures to detect malware patterns at runtime. In an ongoing arms race, these RAM reconstruction approaches must be designed for the attack they are trying to detect. Even though database management systems (DBMS) are collectively responsible for storing and processing most data in organizations, the equivalent problem of memory reconstruction has not been considered for DBMS-managed RAM. In this paper, we propose and evaluate a systematic approach to reverse engineer data structures and access patterns in DBMS RAM. Rather than develop a solution for specific scenarios, we describe an approach to detect and track any RAM area in a DBMS. We evaluate our approach with the four most common RAM areas in well-known DBMSes; this paper describes the design of each area-specific query workload and the process to capture and quantify that area at runtime. We further evaluate our approach by observing the RAM data flow in presence of built-in DBMS encryption. We present an overview of available DBMS encryption mechanisms, their relative advantages and disadvantages, and then illustrate the practical implications for the four memory areas. \'a9 Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2020.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 253\
G\'f6bel, T., Sch\'e4fer, T., Hachenberger, J., T\'fcrr, J., Baier, H.\
57201692166;57219113061;57219110532;57210861965;36449072800;\
A novel approach for generating synthetic datasets for digital forensics\
(2020) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 589 IFIP, pp. 73-93. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85091294672&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-56223-6_5&partnerID=40&md5=64e43f95962f00458b5d0514310f3e10\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-56223-6_5\
AFFILIATIONS: Darmstadt University of Applied Sciences, Darmstadt, Germany; \
National Research Center for Applied Cybersecurity, Darmstadt, Germany; \
Fraunhofer Institute for Secure Information Technology, Darmstadt, Germany; \
Technical University Darmstadt, Darmstadt, Germany\
ABSTRACT: Increases in the quantity and complexity of digital evidence necessitate the development and application of advanced, accurate and efficient digital forensic tools. Digital forensic tool testing helps assure the veracity of digital evidence, but it requires appropriate validation datasets. The datasets are crucial to evaluating reproducibility and improving the state of the art. Datasets can be real-world or synthetic. While real-world datasets have the advantage of relevance, the interpretation of results can be difficult because reliable ground truth may not exist. In contrast, ground truth is easily established for synthetic datasets. This chapter presents the hystck framework for generating synthetic datasets with ground truth. The framework supports the automated generation of synthetic network traffic and operating system and application artifacts by simulating human-computer interactions. The generated data can be indistinguishable from data generated by normal human-computer interactions. The modular structure of the framework enhances the ability to incorporate extensions that simulate new applications and generate new types of network traffic. \'a9 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing 2020.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: network traffic;  operating system data;  Synthetic dataset generation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 254\
Mishra, A.K., Govil, M., Pilli, E.\
57199851432;35812070200;35756126100;\
A taxonomy of hypervisor forensic tools\
(2020) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 589 IFIP, pp. 181-199. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85091267176&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-56223-6_10&partnerID=40&md5=dc3fe248bd01f8ff5e1c37109cdc9298\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-56223-6_10\
AFFILIATIONS: Malaviya National Institute of Technology, Jaipur, India\
ABSTRACT: Cloud computing models are deployed on a compute server whose hardware resources are virtualized to enable multiple virtual machines to run on a single physical system. Several types of virtualization such as bare metal and hosted virtualization are available along with virtualization modes such as full, paravirtualized, hardware-assisted and paravirtualized-hardware-assisted virtualization. Virtual machines are inaccessible from each other when the physical server hardware is abstracted in the full virtualization mode. Physical information such as hard disk drives and server memory are made available in a virtualized environment as a virtual hard disk, vCPU and guest operating system state. Hypervisor operations generate copious amounts of data that are of value in forensic investigations of virtualized cloud environments. This chapter presents a taxonomy of hypervisor forensic tools, which provides a searchable catalog for forensic practitioners to identify specific tools that fulfill their technical requirements. A case study involving a KVM hypervisor demonstrates the evidence that can be found in a virtual machine at the virtual machine manager and host system layers. \'a9 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing 2020.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud computing;  forensic tool taxonomy;  hypervisors\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 255\
Al-Dhaqm, A., Razak, S.A., Siddique, K., Ikuesan, R.A., Kebande, V.R.\
56516988400;57202120585;57191228422;57200145399;56410850700;\
Towards the Development of an Integrated Incident Response Model for Database Forensic Investigation Field\
(2020) IEEE Access, 8, art. no. 9139233, pp. 145018-145032. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85090275743&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2020.3008696&partnerID=40&md5=14bc990979b3dcb4cda0758dae6d4c8f\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3008696\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Engineering, School of Computing, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia (UTM), Skudai, Malaysia; \
Department of Computer Science, Aden Community College, Aden, Yemen; \
Information and Communication Department, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Xiamen University Malaysia, Sepang, Malaysia; \
Department of Cybersecurity and Networking, School of Information Technology, Community College of Qatar, Doha, Qatar; \
Computer Science and Media Technology Department, Malm\'f6 Universitet, Malm\'f6, Sweden\
ABSTRACT: For every contact that is made in a database, a digital trace will potentially be left and most of the database breaches are mostly aimed at defeating the major security goals (Confidentiality, Integrity, and Authenticity) of data that reside in the database. In order to prove/refute a fact during litigation, it is important to identify suitable investigation techniques that can be used to link a potential incident/suspect to the digital crime. As a result, this paper has proposed suitable steps of constructing and Integrated Incident Response Model (IIRM) that can be relied upon in the database forensic investigation field. While developing the IIRM, design science methodology has been adapted and the outcome of this study has shown significant and promising approaches that could be leveraged by digital forensic experts, legal practitioners and law enforcement agencies. This is owing to the fact, that IIRM construction has followed incident investigation principles that are stipulated in ISO guidelines. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: database forensics investigation;  database incident;  Database security;  during-incident response;  post-incident response;  pre-incident response\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 256\
Mandelli, S., Cozzolino, D., Bestagini, P., Verdoliva, L., Tubaro, S.\
56428057900;55440439700;21638596100;6506573720;7003411765;\
CNN-Based Fast Source Device Identification\
(2020) IEEE Signal Processing Letters, 27, art. no. 9141509, pp. 1285-1289. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85089669365&doi=10.1109%2fLSP.2020.3008855&partnerID=40&md5=f339e101970c32140f6216186c2d9525\
\
DOI: 10.1109/LSP.2020.3008855\
AFFILIATIONS: Dipartimento di Elettronica Informazione e Bioingegneria, Politecnico di Milano, Milan, 20133, Italy; \
Dipartimento di Ingegneria Elettrica e Tecnologie dell'Informazione, University Federico II of Naples, Naples, 80125, Italy; \
Dipartimento di Ingegneria Industriale, University Federico II of Naples, Naples, 80125, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Source identification is an important topic in image forensics, since it allows to trace back the origin of an image. This represents a precious information to claim intellectual property but also to reveal the authors of illicit materials. In this letter we address the problem of device identification based on sensor noise and propose a fast and accurate solution using convolutional neural networks (CNNs). Specifically, we propose a 2-channel-based CNN that learns a way of comparing camera fingerprint and image noise at patch level. The proposed solution turns out to be much faster than the conventional approach and to ensure an increased accuracy. This makes the approach particularly suitable in scenarios where large databases of images are analyzed, like over social networks. In this vein, since images uploaded on social media usually undergo at least two compression stages, we include investigations on double JPEG compressed images, always reporting higher accuracy than standard approaches. \'a9 1994-2012 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 257\
Mani, P.R., Kumar, S.P., Chandra, P.S., Kumari, G.S.\
55554060900;57201861447;57218488404;57220347074;\
A robust copy move tamper detection and localization method for image forensics\
(2020) Journal of Critical Reviews, 7 (17), pp. 1522-1530. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85089310068&doi=10.31838%2fjcr.07.17.192&partnerID=40&md5=4be9e8e44a152b5e55319b4d3dfeeb42\
\
DOI: 10.31838/jcr.07.17.192\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of CSE, GIT, GITAM Deemed to Be University, Visakhapatnam, India; \
Dept of CSE, NSRIT, JNTUK\
ABSTRACT: In today's digital world cyber crimes and unethical practices are becoming extensive day by day. The fast growth of technology and easy access to Internet has created a large amount of digital data among which multimedia data is the key to various cyber crimes. Images are a trustworthy media of expression which are considered as digital evidence in fields of Image forensics. The technological advancements in digital image processing has brought many sophisticated tools driving to photo hoaxes in crime detection, digital forensic investigations, medical imaging, copyright protection, media, legal proceedings, political campaigns, fashion industry, etc. Digital images are being created and modified very easily eroding the trust in the truthfulness of the images which is a major concern in law during evidence submission. Though different image tampering mechanisms were developed, each of it has its own limitation which has driven towards the proposed method in this paper. This paper describes an image authentication mechanism that can be incorporated into existing image acquisition model addressing the issue of image tamper detection and copy move tamper localization for verifying the integrity of the image that acts as evidence in the court of law. \'a9 2020 Innovare Academics Sciences Pvt. Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Copy move;  Localization;  SURF\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 258\
Biagetti, A., Ferrando, A., Mascardi, V.\
57218281447;55669011800;6506722954;\
The DigForSim Agent Based Simulator of\'a0People Movements in Crime Scenes\
(2020) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 12092 LNAI, pp. 42-54. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85088578074&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-49778-1_4&partnerID=40&md5=270f16e8b29cf6779ca57685ef67e313\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-49778-1_4\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Genova, Genoa, Italy; \
University of Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Evidence analysis is one of the Digital Forensics tasks and involves examining fragmented incomplete knowledge and reasoning on it, in order to reconstruct plausible crime scenarios. After more than one year of activity within the DigForASP COST Action, the lack of real data about movements of people in crime scenes emerged as a major limitation to the need of testing the DigForASP prototypes that exploit Artificial Intelligence and Automated Reasoning for evidence analysis. In this paper we present DigForSim, an Agent Based Modeling and Simulation tool aimed at producing synthetic, controllable data on the movements of agents in the crime scene, in form of files logging the agents\'92 position at given time points. These log files serve as benchmarks for the DigForASP reasoning prototypes. \'a9 2020, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Agent Based Modeling and Simulation;  Evidence analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 259\
Keserwani, P.K., Govil, M.C., Shubhakar, P.E.\
54585418100;35812070200;35756126100;\
Evidence Building for Ad Click or Web Access on Cloud\
(2020) Communications in Computer and Information Science, 1241 CCIS, pp. 486-500. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85088209812&doi=10.1007%2f978-981-15-6318-8_40&partnerID=40&md5=613342fb962207603a234e23625247e4\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-981-15-6318-8_40\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, National Institute of Technology Sikkim, Burfang Block Ravangla, South Sikkim, 737139, India; \
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Malaviya National Institute of Technology Jaipur, JLN Marg, Jaipur, Rajasthan, India\
ABSTRACT: Web related illegal activities are increasing beyond expectation in recent years. Association of National Advertisers has reported that businesses lost more than $6.5 billion in 2017 due to fraudulent activities of ad frauds. Website of Github was down on 28 February, 2018 due to Distributed Denial of Services (DDoS) attack. The attack of DDoS was conducted through memcached servers. Analysis on relevant log data (web access log or ad click log) is required to identify such illegal incidents in digital forensics investigation. An evidence building methodology is proposed and implemented to generate required log data. The proof of concept is provided by coding three scripts, two in python and one in JavaScript. Virtual Machine (VM) on Amazon Web Service (AWS) has been utilized to execute one python script for log separation. Second python script is executed on client database server to store fingerprint of each click or web access. Fingerprint is a generated hash value unique for each device accessing a website or clicking an advertisement (ad). The third JavaScript code is to be embedded in client web page(s) or ad. The verification of log data has also been discussed with the help of fingerprints. The verification process allows regenerating the fingerprints of log data stored in AWS data store. The regenerated fingerprints are being matched with fingerprints stored in client\'92s database server. The proposed methodology can identify malicious intention of the cloud service provider (CSP) or the investigator or attacker. The proposed methodology can be extended to cloud forensics. \'a9 2020, Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Ad click;  Amazon Web Service (AWS);  Cloud computing web access;  Evidence;  Forensic;  Virtual Machine (VM)\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 260 **SELECTED** SID: 16\
B\'f6hm, F., Englbrecht, L., Pernul, G.\
57210108634;57205318592;6604039051;\
Designing a decision-support visualization for live digital forensic investigations\
(2020) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 12122 LNCS, pp. 223-240. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85087532115&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-49669-2_13&partnerID=40&md5=0d0befdfa878410da941ec57a2ce3d4b\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-49669-2_13\
AFFILIATIONS: Universit\'e4t Regensburg, Regensburg, 93053, Germany\
ABSTRACT: Fileless Malware poses challenges for forensic analysts since the infected system often can\'92t be shut down for a forensic analysis. Turning off the device would destroy forensic artifacts or evidence of the fileless malware. Therefore, a technique called Live Digital Forensics is applied to perform investigations on a running system. During these investigations, domain experts need to carefully decide what tools they want to deploy for their forensic analysis. In this paper we propose a visualization designed to support forensic experts in this decision-making process. Therefore, we follow a design methodology from the visualization domain to come up with a comprehensible design. Following this methodology, we start with identifying and defining the domain problem which the visualization should help to solve. We then translate this domain problem into an abstract description of the available data and user\'92s tasks for the visualization. Finally, we transform these specifications into a visualization design for a Live Digital Forensics decision-support. A use case illustrates the benefits of the proposed method. \'a9 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing 2020.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Forensics;  Live forensics;  Visual Analytics;  Visualization design\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 261\
K\uc0\u322 os, M., El Fray, I.\
57204056583;6506740744;\
Securing Event Logs with Blockchain for IoT\
(2020) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 12133 LNCS, pp. 77-87. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85086144213&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-47679-3_7&partnerID=40&md5=2dbb098b8525a8230ed0b824e64ba501\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-47679-3_7\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, West Pomeranian University of Technology, Szczecin, Poland\
ABSTRACT: The Internet of Things (IoT) is growing in popularity in recent years. With the increasing use, security threats are also becoming a bigger concern, especially considering new challenges, like limited computational power, low storage capacity and unprecedented number of independent, uncoordinated hardware device manufacturers. Unfortunately, modern attacks are more and more sophisticated and some attackers may even use anti-forensics techniques to hide any evidence of their malicious activity. As a result, digital forensics will be crucial in investigating crimes committed against IoT devices. One of the challenges is to create secure, lightweight and tamper-proof event log for the IoT system. Proposed solution relies on a blockchain to store event logs, guaranteeing the integrity of data. Event logs from IoT devices are being sent to multiple servers using multiple channels of communication to ensure logs availability and to move most of computational effort from the IoT device to the server. Logs are (optionally) encrypted to provide confidentiality of stored data. A set of security and performance tests were performed to prove effectiveness of proposed solution. \'a9 2020, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Blockchain;  Event log;  IoT;  IoT devices;  IoT security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 262\
Pandi, G.S., Shah, S., Wandra, K.H.\
57216738969;55253757200;35767238600;\
Exploration of Vulnerabilities, Threats and Forensic Issues and its impact on the Distributed Environment of Cloud and its mitigation\
(2020) Procedia Computer Science, 167, pp. 163-173. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85084476096&doi=10.1016%2fj.procs.2020.03.194&partnerID=40&md5=2e4da536bb7c41a572b09cf206bfb95f\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.procs.2020.03.194\
AFFILIATIONS: L.J. Insitute of Engineering and Technology, C.U. Shah University, Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India; \
Director C.U. Shah University, Surendranagar, Gujarat, India; \
Director Gujarat Marine Board, Gujarat, India\
ABSTRACT: Cloud computing environment offers many services which have attracted the criminals or oppugners to commit cyber-crimes in a more sophisticated manner. Most of the crimes conducted by the criminals are data tampering, spam assaults, distributed denial of service attack and many others. There is a deficiency of reports which relates crime and the usage of cloud computing services. This paper discusses about the threat model STRIDE and the ill-use of the cloud services for many mischievous purpose by the oppugners around the world. This paper employs STRIDE threat modelling approach as a reference to relate the attacks to threats. Some of the malicious activities committed using cloud are distribution of considerable amount of spams, using the cloud service provider's reputation to cheat the firewalls, distributed denial of service, virus dissemination, credit card fraud and arraying the botnet command and control servers. This paper also discusses on a few real websites which have been affected by threats in the recent years. Most of the criminals get away because of lack of evidence. Evidence collection and analysis in the digital world and especially in cloud environment is a great challenge. This paper also touches on a few issues of forensics in cloud computing environment. \'a9 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud Computing;  Cyber crime;  Oppugners;  Stride;  Threats;  Vulerabilities\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 263\
Yogesh, P.R., Devane Satish, R.\
56374013100;57216752680;\
Formal Verification of Secure Evidence Collection Protocol using BAN Logic and AVISPA\
(2020) Procedia Computer Science, 167, pp. 1334-1344. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85084421202&doi=10.1016%2fj.procs.2020.03.449&partnerID=40&md5=54274c963d0608622ea238904d2033cd\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.procs.2020.03.449\
AFFILIATIONS: A.C. Patil College of Engineering, Kharghar, Navi Mumbai, 410210, India; \
Datta Meghe College of Engineering, Airoli, Navi Mumbai, 400708, India\
ABSTRACT: The effect of digitization has led to an increased dependency on the internet. At the same time, cyber-attacks are on the rise due to this increased digitization. In cybercrime cases, digital evidence is of utmost importance. The forensic investigation process always begins after the incident occurred, by that time intelligent attackers got enough time to destroy the traces. This paper proposes a prior evidence capture protocol, that will help in the simultaneous collection of evidence when the crime has occurred. This collected evidence is in the form of device fingerprint which will uniquely identify the fingeprintee client device. In the future, if the dispute arises these prior captured device fingerprints can be used as legal evidence and help in the process of forensic investigation. The proposed protocol uses the concept of a trusted time stamping server (TTSS) to prove the integrity and non-repudiation of the collected evidence. The timestamps are attached by the trusted third party TTSS with all collected evidence, these timestamps cannot be changed by local client devices. The paper also provides security validation of the proposed protocol by using Burrows-Abadi-Needham (BAN) logic. The formal verification is also done by using the AVISPA tool. The results of AVISPA shows that the proposed protocol is safe under OFMC and Cl-AtSe model. \'a9 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: AVISPA;  BAN Logic;  Digital Evidence;  Digital Forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 264\
Mohammmed, S., Sridevi, R.\
57216583525;34067895900;\
A survey on digital forensics phases, tools and challenges\
(2020) Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, 1090, pp. 237-248. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85083987131&doi=10.1007%2f978-981-15-1480-7_20&partnerID=40&md5=ee06ea590016772a12695687ca7174a0\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-981-15-1480-7_20\
AFFILIATIONS: Vardhaman College of Engineering, Shamshabad, India; \
JNTUH College of Engineering, Hyderabad, India\
ABSTRACT: The digital technologies are grown in such way that they are also leading to growth in digital crimes. The aim of digital forensics is to collect, analyze and present evidence related to digital crime and in front of court of law. There are several methods and tools in evidence collection and analysis. This paper gives a survey on digital forensic evidence collection and analysis. Recently, the cloud forensics has become very interesting area of research, as cloud computing is a collection of computer resources and services that can be easily implemented and managed, generally over the Internet. It also discusses about the challenges to be faced in evidence collection and its analysis. \'a9 Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2020.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Analysis;  Cloud forensics;  Digital forensics;  Evidence acquisition;  Examination;  Reporting\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 265\
Khan, Y., Varma, S.\
57216587343;36160615400;\
Development and Design Strategies of Evidence Collection Framework in Cloud Environment\
(2020) Lecture Notes in Networks and Systems, 100, pp. 27-37. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85083957275&doi=10.1007%2f978-981-15-2071-6_3&partnerID=40&md5=cf91615224f575ac278542c0cf0e7a25\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-981-15-2071-6_3\
AFFILIATIONS: Shri Govindram Seksaria Institute of Technology and Science, Indore, Madhya Pradesh, India\
ABSTRACT: Nowadays, cloud computing is one of the popular and widely used concepts in information technology paradigm. It is committed to improving the IT business technically and economically. On the other hand, digital forensic is the process of collection, identification, preservation, examination, and analysis of data or information for the proof in the court of law as an evidence. It is very difficult and challenging to apply digital forensic operation in a cloud environment because CSPs are dependent on each other either they provide IaaS, PaaS, or SaaS. So the cloud forensic, one of the applications of digital forensic in a cloud environment, is just a subset of network forensic. It is a cross-field of digital forensic and cloud computing. In this paper, we investigate all the research issues, problems, and implementation ethics of cloud forensic from the initial level. We found that lots of issues and challenges are remaining to address in this domain. Some major research domains are architectures, data collection and analysis, anti-forensic, incident first responders, roles and responsibilities, legal, standards, and some learning issues. In our research work, we mainly focus on the data collection and cloud forensic architectures and also implement a cloud forensic framework in the context of cloud service models. This research work is tested using different private cloud solutions such as eucalyptus, OpenNebula, VMware, vCloud, and Hadoop platform. In our research work, we implement pattern search facility using the proposed approach in open-source software called digital forensic framework. We also implement in near future digital forensic triage using Amazon Elastic MapReduce. In this research, we also implement designed and development of forensic method for the PaaS and SaaS delivery models of cloud computing, also apply machine learning principles to design and develop new digital forensic methods, and improve the efficiency of investigation using machine learning algorithms for feature extraction and priority of evidence classification of evidence in virtual machines. \'a9 Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2020.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Data collection;  Dependency chains;  Digital forensic;  Evidence segregation;  IaaS;  IDS;  Multiple jurisdictions and tenancy;  PaaS;  SaaS;  SLA;  Virtual environment;  VMware\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 266\
Bhandari, S., Jusas, V.\
57194592344;15127341300;\
An abstraction based approach for reconstruction of timeline in digital forensics\
(2020) Symmetry, 12 (1), art. no. 5597, . Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85083879678&doi=10.3390%2fSYM12010104&partnerID=40&md5=7961c3b9393a3283024e278ff568866a\
\
DOI: 10.3390/SYM12010104\
AFFILIATIONS: Software Engineering Department, Kaunas University of Technology, Studentu St. 50, Kaunas, LT-51368, Lithuania\
ABSTRACT: Acquiring a clear perspective of events and artefacts that occur over time is a challenging objective to accomplish in digital forensics. Reconstruction of the timeline of events and artefacts, which enables digital investigators to understand the timeline of digital crime and interpret the conclusion in the form of digital evidence, is one of the most paramount and challenging tasks in digital forensics. This challenging task requires the analysis of immense amounts of events because of the explosive growth of the internet, interconnected devices, and innovative technology nowadays. Various approaches have been developed during the last decade, but most of them are not able to handle huge volumes of data, explore evidence, and enhance the understandability of timelines in a competent way to assist the investigator. For this purpose, we introduce a methodology backed by an abstraction concept and forensic tools that can support investigators during the reconstruction, understanding of the timeline of events and artefacts, and interpretation of evidence by tracing the activities performed by users of the typical computer system. The Java programming language is used to implement the proposed methodology, which is object-oriented and follows the symmetry definition in software. Generally, symmetry in software can be viewed as an invariant change that aims to preserve a specific property of the system, namely its structure, behaviour, regularity, similarity, familiarity and uniformity. Similarly, the abstraction-based methodology also permits us to follow the properties of symmetry. For instance, a uniform structure is stipulated for all the sources at the particular level of abstraction, such as the number of fields to be considered to provide the abstract level of timeline. The primary purpose of this approach is to assist with the analysis of the timeline in an optimum way. This paper illustrates the approach and then focuses on conceptual aspects of the methodology. The performed experiment shows that the proposed approach enhanced the analysis of the timeline. \'a9 2020 by the authors.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Events and artefacts;  Timeline reconstruction\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 267\
Duan, G., Miao, J., Huang, T.\
23992298600;57216509886;55474354800;\
Median Filtering Detection of Small-Size Image Using AlexCaps-Network\
(2020) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 12022 LNCS, pp. 126-140. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85083740697&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-43575-2_10&partnerID=40&md5=149f0ac17beed3980e99328dfbf53d01\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-43575-2_10\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu, 611731, China; \
Institute of Electronic and Information Engineering of UESTC in Guangdong, Guangdong, 511700, China; \
Department of Fundamental Courses, Chengdu Textile College, Chengdu, 611731, China\
ABSTRACT: Digital image forgers often use various image processing software to maliciously tamper with image contents, and then use some anti-forensics techniques such as median filtering to hide the obvious traces of these tampered images. Therefore, median filtering detection is one of the key technologies in the field of image forensics. Recently, with the rapid development of the deep learning, more and more researchers have proposed many image median filtering detection algorithms based on deep learning. Deep learning method can automatically extract the image median filtering features and unify them with classification steps in a deep learning model, which has better detection performance than traditional algorithms. However, existing methods based on deep learning still have the promotion space when facing small size or highly compressed images. To solve this problem, a median filtering detection method of small-size image using AlexCaps-network is proposed in this paper. AlexCaps-network is a joint network combining the classical network Alexnet and Capsule network. Firstly, in order to cope with the difficulty of extracting median filtering features caused by the low-resolution of small size and highly compressed image blocks, we add image preprocessing layer to the first layer of the network to enhance the trace of median filtering. Secondly, the general feature of median filtering in learning images is extracted by shallow ordinary convolutional neural network. The capsule network layer extracts the more complex spatial information in the median filtering image by dynamic routing algorithm and predicts the results. Finally, the experimental results show that the effective detection performance of our proposed method for small size and highly compressed images, even though the size is 16\'a0\'d7\'a016 image blocks and QF of compression is 70, is still good. \'a9 2020, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Alex network;  Capsule network;  Digital image forensics;  Median filtering detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
\
ID: 268\
18th International Workshop on Digital Forensics and Watermarking, IWDW 2019\
(2020) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 12022 LNCS, 428 p. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85083698528&partnerID=40&md5=9671932aed9f3ff9a986376fc994cef8\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 34 papers. The special focus in this conference is on Digital Forensics and Watermarking. The topics include: Image Visually Meaningful Cryptography Based on Julia Set Generating and Information Hiding; multi-attack Reference Hashing Generation for Image Authentication; cheating Detection in (k, n) Secret Image Sharing Scheme; Light Multiscale Conventional Neural Network for MP3 Steganalysis; improving Audio Steganalysis Using Deep Residual Networks; cover-Source Mismatch in Deep Spatial Steganalysis; ensemble Steganalysis Based on Deep Residual Network; weakly Supervised Adaptation to Re-sizing for Image Manipulation Detection on Small Patches; GRU-SVM Model for Synthetic Speech Detection; preface; GAN-Based Steganography with the Concatenation of Multiple Feature Maps; median Filtering Detection of Small-Size Image Using AlexCaps-Network; Double JPEG Compression Detection Based on Markov Model; anti-forensics of Image Sharpening Using Generative Adversarial Network; A New JPEG Image Watermarking Method Exploiting Spatial JND Model; Improved DM-QIM Watermarking Scheme for PDF Document; new Paradigm for Self-embedding Image Watermarking with Poisson Equation; reversible Data Hiding Based on Partitioning the Prediction Values; a Novel Reversible Data Hiding with Skin Tone Smoothing Effect for Face Images; a Novel Lossless Data Hiding Scheme in Homomorphically Encrypted Images; information Hiding Based on Typing Errors; GAN-TStega: Text Steganography Based on Generative Adversarial Networks; High-Capacity Reversible Data Hiding in Encrypted Images Based on MSB Prediction; image Steganography Using an Eight-Element Neighborhood Gaussian Markov Random Field Model; broadcasting Steganography in the Blockchain; Designing Non-additive Distortions for JPEG Steganography Based on Blocking Artifacts Reduction; halftone Image Steganography with Distortion Measurement Based on Structural Similarity.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 269\
Hughes, N., Varol, C.\
57212110085;15128176200;\
The critical need for tool validation before using malware scanners in digital forensics\
(2020) Proceedings of the 15th International Conference on Cyber Warfare and Security, ICCWS 2020, pp. 228-235. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85083363135&doi=10.34190%2fICCWS.20.099&partnerID=40&md5=affa087acfaa573fa7c2785e29368837\
\
DOI: 10.34190/ICCWS.20.099\
AFFILIATIONS: Forensic Support, Harris County Public Defender's Office, Houston, United States; \
Sam Houston State University, Huntsville, United States\
ABSTRACT: In most prosecutions, it is critical to demonstrate that the accused is the person who committed the charged offense and that the evidence in the case is reliable. In many prosecutions involving digital evidence, the presence of malware may account for inculpatory evidence found on a seized device, or may pose a threat to the integrity of the data found on the device. Therefore, an important part of the digital forensic examiner's job is to determine whether there is malware on a seized device. Forensic examiners often use malware scanners designed for malware protection during forensic analyses. The suitability of the \'93off-label\'94 use malware scanners for forensic purposes remains an open question. Without empirical data about how malware scanners perform, examiners risk making unsupported or unfounded assumptions about the suitability of the malware scanners for forensic analysis. The tools used by digital forensic examiners are indispensable to efficiently process digital devices. It is important that digital forensic examiners formally validate digital forensic tools in order to demonstrate that the tools are accurate and reliable. It is also important that examiners consider the limitations of tools, particularly tools not explicitly designed with digital forensic investigation in mind. This paper considers the formal specifications and validation requirements needed to show that malware detection software is reliable in a forensic context. Additionally, this paper describes the use of an automated validation utility to demonstrate the critical need for reliable tools and validation methods. The ultimate goal of this paper is to foster discussion of tool validation in digital forensics and to highlight the problems associated with the \'93off-label\'94 use of not-validated software built for non-forensic purposes during a forensic examination. \'a9 2020. the authors. All Rights Reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Automated validation;  Digital forensics;  Malware analysis;  Method validation;  Tool validation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 270\
Silva, A.P., Vieira, M.N., Barbosa, A.V.\
57217311915;7202140174;7103244764;\
Forensic Speaker Comparison Using Evidence Interval in Full Bayesian Significance Test\
(2020) Mathematical Problems in Engineering, 2020, art. no. 2914942, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85083274226&doi=10.1155%2f2020%2f2914942&partnerID=40&md5=d3dcdee5d536d1857ad3cba717a2d088\
\
DOI: 10.1155/2020/2914942\
AFFILIATIONS: Graduate Program in Electrical Engineering, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Av. Ant\'f4nio Carlos 6627, Belo Horizonte, MG, 31270-901, Brazil; \
Institute of Criminalistics of Minas Gerais, Av. Augusto de Lima 1833, Belo Horizonte, MG, 30110-017, Brazil; \
Centro Universit\'e1rio Newton Paiva, Rua Jos\'e9 Cl\'e1udio Resende 420, Belo Horizonte, MG, 30494-230, Brazil; \
Department of Electronic Engineering, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Av. Ant\'f4nio Carlos 6627, Belo Horizonte, MG, 31270-901, Brazil\
ABSTRACT: This paper describes the application of a full Bayesian significance test (FBST) to compute evidence intervals in forensic speaker comparison (FSC). In the FBST approach, the challenge is to apply the test to a large number of observations and to formulate an equation to solve the test quickly. The contribution of the present work is that it proposes an application of the FBST to FSC and develops a method to calculate the FBST for the distribution of expected values (mean) with unknown variance without using Monte Carlo Markov chains (MCMC). Comparisons with other interval inference methodologies indicate that the evidence interval size is 49% greater than that computed with the Gosset approach. The evidence interval presented 71% fewer classification errors than the punctual inference did for the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of 17 dB. \'a9 2020 Adelino P. Silva et al.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 271\
Azeez, N.A., Salaudeen, B.B., Misra, S., Damasevicius, R., Maskeliunas, R.\
53864626700;57216320767;56962766700;6603451290;27467587600;\
Identifying phishing attacks in communication networks using URL consistency features\
(2020) International Journal of Electronic Security and Digital Forensics, 12 (2), pp. 200-213. Cited 23 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85083091281&doi=10.1504%2fIJESDF.2020.106318&partnerID=40&md5=b968988e5b3399ea67915cdda3790b04\
\
DOI: 10.1504/IJESDF.2020.106318\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Sciences, University of Lagos, Lagos, Nigeria; \
Department of Electrical and Information Engineering, Covenant University, Ota, Nigeria; \
Department of Computer Engineering, Atilim University, Ankara, Turkey; \
Faculty of Informatics, Kaunas University of Technology, Kaunas, Lithuania\
ABSTRACT: Phishing is a fraudulent attempt by cybercriminals, where the target audience is addressed by a text message, phone call or e-mail, requesting classified and sensitive information after presenting himself/herself as a legitimate agent. Successful phishing attack may result into financial loss and identity theft. Identifying forensic characteristics of phishing attack can help to detect the attack and its perpetuators and as well as to enable defence against it. To shield internet users from phishing assaults, numerous anti-phishing models have been proposed. Currently employed techniques to handle these challenges are not sufficient and capable enough. We aim at identifying phishing sites in order to guard internet users from being vulnerable to any form of phishing attacks by verifying the conceptual and literal consistency between the uniform resource locator (URL) and the web content. The implementation of the proposed PhishDetect method achieves an accuracy of 99.1%; indicating that it is effective in detecting various forms of phishing attacks. \'a9 2020 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cybersecurity;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Phishing attacks;  Risk assessment\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 272\
Alsmirat, M.A., Al-Hussien, R.A., Al-Sarayrah, W.T., Jararweh, Y., Etier, M.\
23134790200;57202465650;57189660133;25825095600;55433711800;\
Digital video forensics: A comprehensive survey\
(2020) International Journal of Advanced Intelligence Paradigms, 15 (4), pp. 437-456. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85082745913&doi=10.1504%2fIJAIP.2020.106040&partnerID=40&md5=93d3d3159080279b0a90531c05b6dad1\
\
DOI: 10.1504/IJAIP.2020.106040\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Jordan University of Science and Technology, Jordan; \
Department of Industrial Engineering, Hashemite University, Jordan\
ABSTRACT: The wide spread of digital devices and tools causes the simplification of the manipulation of any digital multimedia content. As a result, digital videos and photos are not trusted to be used as evidence in courts. This fact raises the need for finding techniques to ensure the authenticity of digital multimedia contents. Experts in digital-signal processing conducted a huge number of researches to find new strategies, using digital forensics, to verify digital evidences and trace its origins. The aim of this paper is to collect and provide the definitions of the main concepts related to media forensics. Also, this paper gives an overview of the different techniques used in media forensics concentrating on video forensics. Furthermore, it classifies the work done in the field according to the main technique used in the proposed solution approach. Copyright \'a9 2020 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensic;  Double compression;  Image forensic;  Video compression;  Video forensic;  Video manipulation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 273\
Reedy, P.\
57211401210;\
Interpol review of digital evidence 2016 - 2019\
(2020) Forensic Science International: Synergy, 2, pp. 489-520. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85081953848&doi=10.1016%2fj.fsisyn.2020.01.015&partnerID=40&md5=dea081ac9dcbef188d0d1ac11745afb9\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.fsisyn.2020.01.015\
AFFILIATIONS: 4th Street Global, United States\
ABSTRACT: This review paper covers the forensic-relevant literature in digital evidence from 2016 to 2019 as a part of the 19th Interpol International Forensic Science Managers Symposium. The review papers are also available at the Interpol website at: https://www.interpol.int/content/download/14458/file/Interpol Review Papers 2019.pdf \'a9 2020 The Author(s)\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Network forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 274\
Bo\'eb, L.-J.\
7004414277;\
The legal identification of the voice: The French case. History, issues and proposals [L'identification juridique de la voix: Le cas fran\'e7ais: Historique, probl\'e9matique et propositions]\
(2020) RLA2C 1998 - Speaker Recognition and its Commercial and Forensic Applications, pp. 222-239. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85081168215&partnerID=40&md5=6c41fdb5bd5b776a36ce639c0b349472\
\
AFFILIATIONS: ICP INPG, Universit\'e9 Stendhal, Comit\'e9 du GFCP pour les questions d'identification juridique de la voix ESA, CNRS 5009, BP 25, Grenoble Cedex, 38040, France\
ABSTRACT: Among the sources of information used in legal identification, fingerprints and genetic data seem to provide a high degree of reliability. It is possible to evaluate the probability of confusing two individuals who might possess the same fingerprint characteristics or the same genetic markers, and to quantify the risk of a false alarm. By their very nature, these data do not vary significantly over the course of time, and they cannot be modified by a suspect. The erroneous metaphoric term "voice fingerprint" or "voiceprint" leads many people (not only the general public) to believe that the voice is as reliable as the papillary ridges of the fingertips. This is not the case. A recording of speech is not a trace left on a surface by contact with part of an individual's body, nor is it a direct sample taken from the latter: it is nothing more than an indirect measurement of complex articulatory movements. The speech organs give rise to instantaneous acoustic pressure variations, and these are recovered by a transducer which converts them into variations. Like all human gestures, speech gestures are not reproducible over the course of time. The parameters used to describe speech clearly demonstrate dependence on the speed of articulation, onthe pitch and loudness of the voice, on the psychological state of the speaker and on environmental stress. Automatic speech recognition is in fact directly confronted with this intra-speaker variability, which is intrinsically linked to the process of speech production. To these factors must be added the effect of parameters describing transmission and recording, and the possibility that several voices or noise may have been superimposed. In the case where a measurement has been made over a telephone line, the characteristics of the microphone, the telephone line itself, and finally the recording device will also need be accounted for. Experts do not always have access to all of these data. To these factors must also be added the possibility of imitation or disguise, and the possible use of a whole range of techniques for distorting the voice, ranging from simple spectral equalisation to the use of a vocoder or recent techniques such as voice morphing. The message may itself have been recorded by its author under conditions that are inaccessible to the investigators. In certain inquiries the only evidence available may consist of a recording of a telephone conversation made by the suspect. The interest that reliable speaker identification techniques may arouse is understandable. In France there are no experts in the courts registered as specialists in voice identification. Instead, there are experts in "acoustics and vibration" who are recruited by policy and magistrates for legal identifications. Lawyers can call upon specialists in speech whose testimony will be assessed by judges. \'ab In the current sate of the art, it does not seem possible to identify speakers by automatic methods based on procedures designed by an expert and using a speech sample recorded in optimal (i.e., laboratory) conditions - and even less so if the speech sample is of short duration (e.g., around twenty seconds), has a significant amount of background noise, was recorded in poor technical conditions and/or over a telephone, or comes from a speaker disguising or artificially modifying his or her voice.1 \'bb And yet certain magistrates in France attach importance to analyses of the voice which, along with other indices, should not be used except to help in directing an investigation. At present, a suspect can be held before judgement for several months as a result of a voice analysis. In this communication, the author will: 
\f3 \uc0\u9633 
\f0  detail the conditions under which, in France, voice analyses are carried out in the course of an investigation undertaken by the law; 
\f3 \uc0\u9633 
\f0  attempt to define the limits of this protocol, and the difficulty (and impossibility) of producing a reliable statistical test. 
\f3 \uc0\u9633 
\f0  recall the statement taken by the French speech community about voice identification in the case of forensic analysis; 
\f3 \uc0\u9633 
\f0  propose some elements to be discussed by speech scientists in collaboration with policy, magistrates to establish protocols in a scientific frame. Copyright \'a9 RLA2C 1998 - Speaker Recognition and its Commercial and Forensic Applications.All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 275\
Ramos Lopez, R., Almaraz Luengo, E., Sandoval Orozco, A.L., Villalba, L.J.G.\
57148247300;57215549989;57195496087;57192440178;\
Digital video source identification based on container's structure analysis\
(2020) IEEE Access, 8, art. no. 8984287, pp. 36363-36375. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85081116178&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2020.2971785&partnerID=40&md5=c66083390f5eac25019641f1c426fd75\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2971785\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Software Engineering and Artificial Intelligence (DISIA), Group of Analysis, Security and Systems (GASS), Faculty of Computer Science and Engineering, Universidad Complutense de Madrid (UCM), Madrid, 28040, Spain; \
Securitas Direct Espa\'f1a, S.A.U., Madrid, 28224, Spain; \
Department of Statistics and Operations Research, Group of Analysis, Security and Systems (GASS), Faculty of Mathematical Science, Universidad Complutense de Madrid (UCM), Madrid, 28040, Spain\
ABSTRACT: The mobile device ecosystem has dramatically evolved over the last few years, since users have openly embraced a massive use of mobile phones for different purposes: professional use, personal use, etc. Digital videos can be used to define legal responsibilities or as part of the evidence in trials. The forensic analysis of digital videos becomes very relevant to determine the origin and authenticity of a video in order to link an individual with a device, place or event. The field of forensic analysis of digital videos is constantly facing new and direct challenges. Even though the basic principles of this discipline remain unchanged, numerous issues appear every year that require new procedures and tools. Therefore, it is necessary to provide forensic analysts with techniques to identify the origin of multimedia content. In this paper, the topic of source identification in open scenarios will be discussed, since analysts do not know in advance the set of cameras to which a video belongs so they find it difficult to identify its source. This approach is similar to real-life situations since in most cases, analysts are unaware of the set of video cameras. This paper aims to create a technique that identifies the source of digital videos generated by digital devices through the use of unsupervised algorithms based on the analysis of the structure of multimedia video devices. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Acquisition source identification;  clustering analysis;  container atoms;  forensics analysis;  video container\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 276\
Champod, C., Meuwly, D.\
6603229803;6504703600;\
The inference of identity in forensic speaker recognition\
(2020) RLA2C 1998 - Speaker Recognition and its Commercial and Forensic Applications, pp. 125-134. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85081102901&partnerID=40&md5=447333d962c5ad05293a5a62d2fd4be3\
\
AFFILIATIONS: L'Institut de Police Scientifique et de Criminologie, Universit\'e9 de Lausanne, Lausanne, CH-1015, Switzerland\
ABSTRACT: The aim of this paper is to investigate the ways to interpret evidence suggested in the field of speaker recognition. Several methods - speaker verification, speaker identification and Type I / Type II errors statement- will be presented and evaluated in the light of the judicial needs. It will be shown that these methods for interpreting evidence unfortunately force the scientist to adopt a role and to formulate answers that are outside his scientific province. A Bayesian interpretation framework (based on the likelihood ratio) will be proposed. It represents an adequate solution for the interpretation of the evidence in the judicial process. It fills in the majority of the gaps of the other inference frameworks and allows to liken the speaker recognition to the same logic than the other forensic identification evidences. Copyright \'a9 RLA2C 1998 - Speaker Recognition and its Commercial and Forensic Applications.All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 277\
Zhang, J., Liao, Y., Zhu, X., Wang, H., Ding, J.\
36505442900;57207471907;36109683800;57215427322;57031050400;\
A Deep Learning Approach in the Discrete Cosine Transform Domain to Median Filtering Forensics\
(2020) IEEE Signal Processing Letters, 27, art. no. 8960425, pp. 276-280. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85080885751&doi=10.1109%2fLSP.2020.2966888&partnerID=40&md5=49870a61347787c1d5479fea4592ab2c\
\
DOI: 10.1109/LSP.2020.2966888\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electrical and Information Engineering, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, China; \
China Institute of FTZ Supply Chain, Shanghai Maritime University, Shanghai, 201306, China; \
State Key Laboratory of Digital Publishing Technology, Beijing, 100871, China\
ABSTRACT: This letter presents a novel median filtering forensics approach, based on a convolutional neural network (CNN) with an adaptive filtering layer (AFL), which is built in the discrete cosine transform (DCT) domain. Using the proposed AFL, the CNN can determine the main frequency range closely related with the operational traces. Then, to automatically learn the multi-scale manipulation features, a multi-scale convolutional block is developed, exploring a new multi-scale feature fusion strategy based on the maxout function. The resultant features are further processed by a convolutional stream with pooling and batch normalization operations, and finally fed into the classification layer with the Softmax function. Experimental results show that our proposed approach is able to accurately detect the median filtering manipulation and outperforms the state-of-the-art schemes, especially in the scenarios of low image resolution and serious compression loss. \'a9 1994-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Convolutional neural networks;  discrete cosine transforms;  image forensics;  median filtering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 278\
6th International Conference on Advanced Computing, Networking, and Informatics, ICACNI 2018\
(2020) Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, 766, 317 p. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85079766014&partnerID=40&md5=df464e123adbcdd105b6847f5259ba20\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 27 papers. The special focus in this conference is on Advanced Computing, Networking, and Informatics. The topics include: Hash Code Based Image Authentication Using Rotation Invariant Local Phase Quantization; novel Competitive Swarm Optimizer for Sampling-Based Image Matting Problem; note Transcription from Carnatic Music; sentence-Based Dialect Identification System Using Extreme Gradient Boosting Algorithm; characterization of Consonant Sounds Using Features Related to Place of Articulation; named Entity Recognition Using Part-of-Speech Rules for Telugu; objective Assessment of Pitch Accuracy in Equal-Tempered Vocal Music Using Signal Processing Approaches; gibbs Sampled Hierarchical Dirichlet Mixture Model Based Approach for Clustering Scientific Articles; experimental Evaluation of Dynamic Typing Mechanism: A Case Study; A Robust and Blind Watermarking for Color Videos Using Redundant Wavelet Domain and SVD; integrating Digital Forensics and Digital Discovery to Improve E-mail Communication Analysis in Organisations; speaker Verification Systems: A Comprehensive Review; A Fast Method for Segmenting ECG Waveforms; Removal of Eye-Blink Artifact from EEG Using LDA and Pre-trained RBF Neural Network; skin Cancer Detection Using Advanced Imaging Techniques; auto-associative Neural Network Based Concrete Crack Detection; image Filter Selection, Denoising and Enhancement Based on Statistical Attributes of Pixel Array; Enhanced Security Credentials for Image Steganography Using QR Code; Clustering-Based Melanoma Detection in Dermoscopy Images Using ABCD Parameters; optimized Object Detection Technique in Video Surveillance System Using Depth Images; automated Histogram-Based Seed Selection for the Segmentation of Natural Scene; application of Image Fusion Approaches for Image Differencing in Satellite Images; a Novel Method for Detecting Bone Contours in Hand Radiographic Images.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 279\
Boato, G., Dang-Nguyen, D.-T., De Natale, F.G.B.\
8662845900;54792686300;7003297760;\
Morphological Filter Detector for Image Forensics Applications\
(2020) IEEE Access, 8, art. no. 8955879, pp. 13549-13560. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85079745858&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2020.2965745&partnerID=40&md5=54c0e579cfb5d08355f9d6ee1bc2e076\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2965745\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Engineering and Computer Science (DISI), University of Trento, Trento, 38122, Italy; \
Italian Consortium of Telecommunications (CNIT), Parma, 43100, Italy; \
Department of Information Science and Media Studies (Infomedia), University of Bergen, Bergen, 5007, Norway\
ABSTRACT: Mathematical morphology provides a large set of powerful non-linear image operators, widely used for feature extraction, noise removal or image enhancement. Although morphological filters might be used to remove artifacts produced by image manipulations, both on binary and graylevel documents, little effort has been spent towards their forensic identification. In this paper we propose a non-trivial extension of a deterministic approach originally detecting erosion and dilation of binary images. The proposed approach operates on grayscale images and is robust to image compression and other typical attacks. When the image is attacked the method looses its deterministic nature and uses a properly trained SVM classifier, using the original detector as a feature extractor. Extensive tests demonstrate that the proposed method guarantees very high accuracy in filtering detection, providing 100% accuracy in discriminating the presence and the type of morphological filter in raw images of three different datasets. The achieved accuracy is also good after JPEG compression, equal or above 76.8% on all datasets for quality factors above 80. The proposed approach is also able to determine the adopted structuring element for moderate compression factors. Finally, it is robust against noise addition and it can distinguish morphological filter from other filters. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Image Forensics;  media authentication;  morphological filter detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 280\
Wu, T., Yan, D., Xiang, L., Wang, R.\
57203529030;24825818400;57203535863;7405340909;\
Detection of operation type and order for digital speech\
(2020) Lecture Notes in Electrical Engineering, 635, pp. 25-37. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85078479821&doi=10.1007%2f978-981-15-2756-2_3&partnerID=40&md5=8ad6386341d1dea10eb8cf050eba8eb3\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-981-15-2756-2_3\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Information Science and Engineering, Ningbo University, Ningbo, Zhejiang  315211, China; \
Guangdong Key Laboratory of Intelligent Information Processing and Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Media Security, Shenzhen, 518060, China\
ABSTRACT: Most existing speech forensic works implicitly assume the suspected speech either has or has not been processed by a specific operation. In practice, however, the operation type performed on the target speech is usually unknown to the forensic analyst, and in most cases, multiple operations may be involved in order to conceal the forgery trace. Few works have considered these issues. In this study, we propose a universal forensic algorithm that can detect four typical speech operations: pitch shifting, noise-adding, low-pass filtering, and high-pass filtering. The motivation of the proposed algorithm is based on the observation that different operations will cause different effects on Mel-frequency cepstral coefficients (MFCC). The statistical moments of MFCC are extracted as detecting features. Additionally, cepstral mean and variance normalization (CMVN), which is a computationally efficient normalization technique, is used to eliminate the impact of channel noise. Finally, an ensembled binary classifier is used to detect the type of various operations, and multiclass classifiers are adopted to identify the order of operations. The experimental results on the TIMIT and UME-ERJ datasets show that the proposed forensic features achieve good performance on the operation type and order detection. Additionally, the results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm in terms of robustness against the MP3 compression attack. \'a9 Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd 2020.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: MFCC;  Multiclass Classification;  Operation Trace;  Speech Forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 281\
Hou, J., Li, Y., Yu, J., Shi, W.\
57196243683;57214140215;56131110100;8727119200;\
A Survey on Digital Forensics in Internet of Things\
(2020) IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 7 (1), art. no. 8831387, pp. 1-15. Cited 11 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85078261984&doi=10.1109%2fJIOT.2019.2940713&partnerID=40&md5=0d208947c1243519befb9e25b2884123\
\
DOI: 10.1109/JIOT.2019.2940713\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information, Renmin University of China, Beijing, 100872, China; \
School of Computer and Information Engineering, Henan University, Kaifeng, 475004, China\
ABSTRACT: Internet of Things (IoT) is increasingly permeating peoples' lives, gradually revolutionizing our way of life. Due to the tight connection between people and IoT, now civil and criminal investigations or internal probes must take IoT into account. From the forensic perspective, the IoT environment contains a rich set of artifacts that could benefit investigations, while the forensic investigation in IoT paradigm may have to alter to accommodate characteristics of IoT. Therefore, in this article, we analyze the impact of IoT on digital forensics and systematize the research efforts made by previous researchers from 2010 to 2018. We sketch the landscape of IoT forensics and examine the state of IoT forensics under a 3-D framework. The 3-D framework consists of a temporal dimension, a spatial dimension, and a technical dimension. The temporal dimension walks through the standard digital forensic process while the spatial dimension explores where to identify sources of evidence in IoT environment. These two dimensions attempt to provide principles and guidelines for standardizing digital investigations in the context of IoT. The technical dimension guides a way to the exploration of tools and techniques to ensure the enforcement of digital forensics in the ever-evolving IoT environment. Put together, we present a holistic overview of digital forensics in IoT. We also highlight open issues and outline promising suggestions to inspire future study. \'a9 2014 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cybercrime;  digital forensics;  Internet of Things (IoT)\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 282\
Mayer, O., Stamm, M.C.\
56694186600;34870520200;\
Forensic Similarity for Digital Images\
(2020) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 15, art. no. 8744262, pp. 1331-1346. Cited 21 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85077046508&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2019.2924552&partnerID=40&md5=565bf15fbe074c18a4b073812446bfb4\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2019.2924552\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA  19104, United States\
ABSTRACT: In this paper, we introduce a new digital image forensics approach called forensic similarity, which determines whether two image patches contain the same forensic trace or different forensic traces. One benefit of this approach is that prior knowledge, e.g., training samples, of a forensic trace is not required to make a forensic similarity decision on it in the future. To do this, we propose a two-part deep-learning system composed of a convolutional neural network-based feature extractor and a three-layer neural network, called the similarity network. This system maps the pairs of image patches to a score indicating whether they contain the same or different forensic traces. We evaluated the system accuracy of determining whether two image patches were captured by the same or different camera model and manipulated by the same or a different editing operation and the same or a different manipulation parameter, given a particular editing operation. Experiments demonstrate applicability to a variety of forensic traces and importantly show efficacy on 'unknown' forensic traces that were not used to train the system. Experiments also show that the proposed system significantly improves upon prior art, reducing error rates by more than half. Furthermore, we demonstrated the utility of the forensic similarity approach in two practical applications: forgery detection and localization, and database consistency verification. \'a9 2005-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: deep learning;  forgery detection;  Multimedia forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 283\
Simou, S., Kalloniatis, C., Gritzalis, S., Katos, V.\
56226509000;8935567300;6701410579;23097661700;\
A Revised Forensic Process for Aligning the Investigation Process with the Design of Forensic-Enabled Cloud Services\
(2020) Communications in Computer and Information Science, 1111 CCIS, pp. 161-177. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85076883631&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-37545-4_11&partnerID=40&md5=4dac26cef1f46bf378fabed19452ed1b\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-37545-4_11\
AFFILIATIONS: Privacy Engineering and Social Informatics Laboratory, Department of Cultural Technology and Communication, University of the Aegean, University Hill, Mytilene, 81100, Greece; \
Laboratory of Systems Security, Department of Digital Systems, University of Piraeus, Piraeus, 18534, Greece; \
Department of Computing and Informatics, Bournemouth University, Poole House, Fern Barrow, Bournemouth, BH12 5BB, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: The design and implementation of cloud services, without taking under consideration the forensic requirements and the investigation process, makes the acquisition and examination of data, complex and demanding. The evidence gathered from the cloud may not become acceptable and admissible in the court. A literature gap in supporting software engineers so as to elicit and model forensic-related requirements exists. In order to fill the gap, software engineers should develop cloud services in a forensically sound manner. In this paper, a brief description of the cloud forensic-enabled framework is presented (adding some new elements) so as to understand the role of the design of forensic-enabled cloud services in a cloud forensic investigation. A validation of the forensic requirements is also produced by aligning the stages of cloud forensic investigation process with the framework\'92s forensic requirements. In this way, on one hand, a strong relationship is built between these two elements and emphasis is given to the role of the forensic requirements and their necessity in supporting the investigation process. On the other hand, the alignment assists towards the identification of the degree of the forensic readiness of a cloud service against a forensic investigation. \'a9 Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2020.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud forensic investigation process;  Cloud forensics;  Forensic constraints;  Forensic readiness;  Forensic requirements\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 284\
Huang, C.C., Lee, C.E., Thing, V.L.L.\
55413101700;57193521684;6507064666;\
A novel video forgery detection model based on triangular polarity feature classification\
(2020) International Journal of Digital Crime and Forensics, 12 (1), pp. 14-34. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85074520252&doi=10.4018%2fIJDCF.2020010102&partnerID=40&md5=95ea5788a42e6a26f6e02f7d0a37f965\
\
DOI: 10.4018/IJDCF.2020010102\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute for Infocomm Research, A*STAR, Singapore, Singapore\
ABSTRACT: Video forgery has been increasing over the years due to the wide accessibility of sophisticated video editing software. A highly accurate and automated video forgery detection system will therefore be vitally important in ensuring the authenticity of forensic video evidences. This article proposes a novel Triangular Polarity Feature Classification (TPFC) video forgery detection framework for video frame insertion and deletion forgeries. The TPFC framework has high precision and recall rates with a simple and threshold-less algorithm designed for real-world applications. System robustness evaluations based on cross validation and different database recording conditions were also performed and validated. Evaluation on the performance of the TPFC framework demonstrated the efficacy of the proposed framework by achieving a recall rate of up to 98.26% and precision rate of up to 95.76%, as well as high localization accuracy on detected forged videos. The TPFC framework is further demonstrated to be capable of outperforming other modern video forgery detection techniques available today. Copyright \'a9 2020, IGI Global.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Frame Deletion;  Frame Insertion;  Inter-frame Forgery Detection;  Precision Rate;  Recall Rate;  Video Forensic\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 285\
Anglano, C., Canonico, M., Guazzone, M.\
6601960410;6602971617;24821842200;\
The Android Forensics Automator (AnForA): A tool for the Automated Forensic Analysis of Android Applications\
(2020) Computers and Security, 88, art. no. 101650, . Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85073568055&doi=10.1016%2fj.cose.2019.101650&partnerID=40&md5=ab0b6355c705351cd4c87a5248efabcd\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.cose.2019.101650\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Science Institute, DiSIT, University of Piemonte Orientale, Viale T. Michel 11, Alessandria, 15121, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Most of our daily activities are carried out by means of mobile applications, that typically generate and store on the device large sets of data. The forensic analysis of these data thus plays a crucial role during an investigation, as it allows to reconstruct the above activities. Manually analyzing these applications is a long, tedious, and error-prone task. In this paper we present the design, implementation, and evaluation of AnForA, a software tool that automates most of the activities that need to be carried out to forensically analyze Android applications, and that has been designed in such a way to yield various important properties, namely fidelity, artifact coverage, artifact precision, effectiveness, repeatability, and generality. AnForA is based on a dynamic \'93black box\'94 approach, in which the application to be analyzed is first installed on a virtualized Android device, and then a set of experiments are carried out, in which actions of interest are automatically performed on the application by emulating a human user that interacts with its interface. During the experiments, the file systems of the device storage are actively monitored, so that the data created or modified by each one of these actions can be located and correlated with that action. We have devised a proof-of-concept implementation of AnForA, that we use to assess its ability in achieving its design goals, by analyzing through it several Android applications already studied in the literature, so that we can compare AnForA's results against those reported in these papers. The results of our evaluation confirm that AnForA greatly simplifies the forensic analysis of Android applications, and exhibits all the properties mentioned above, namely fidelity, artifact coverage, artifact precision, effectiveness, repeatability, and generality, to a higher extent than previous studies published in the literature. \'a9 2019\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android applications;  Automated forensics analysis;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Mobile forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 286\
Matkowski, W.M., Chai, T., Kong, A.W.K.\
57209398401;57193743269;23497306400;\
Palmprint Recognition in Uncontrolled and Uncooperative Environment\
(2020) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 15, art. no. 8854829, pp. 1601-1615. Cited 19 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85072973472&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2019.2945183&partnerID=40&md5=75439f029a996355a14ae896ac5bcda4\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2019.2945183\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science and Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, 639798, Singapore; \
Institute of Information Science, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, 100044, China\
ABSTRACT: Online palmprint recognition and latent palmprint identification are two branches of palmprint studies. The former uses middle-resolution images collected by a digital camera in a well-controlled or contact-based environment with user cooperation for commercial applications and the latter uses high-resolution latent palmprints collected in crime scenes for forensic investigation. However, these two branches do not cover some palmprint images which have the potential for forensic investigation. Due to the prevalence of smartphone and consumer camera, more evidence is in the form of digital images taken in uncontrolled and uncooperative environment, e.g., child pornographic images and terrorist images, where the criminals commonly hide or cover their face. However, their palms can be observable. To study palmprint identification on images collected in uncontrolled and uncooperative environment, a new palmprint database is established and an end-to-end deep learning algorithm is proposed. The new database named NTU Palmprints from the Internet (NTU-PI-v1) contains 7881 images from 2035 palms collected from the Internet. The proposed algorithm consists of an alignment network and a feature extraction network and is end-to-end trainable. The proposed algorithm is compared with the state-of-the-art online palmprint recognition methods and evaluated on three public contactless palmprint databases, IITD, CASIA, and PolyU and two new databases, NTU-PI-v1 and NTU contactless palmprint database. The experimental results showed that the proposed algorithm outperforms the existing palmprint recognition methods. \'a9 2005-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Biometrics;  criminal and victim identification;  forensics;  palmprint recognition\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 287\
Dizdarevi\uc0\u263 , A., Barakovi\u263 , S., Barakovi\u263  Husi\u263 , J.\
57210117182;35317092100;55601474300;\
Examination of Digital Forensics Software Tools Performance: Open or Not?\
(2020) Lecture Notes in Networks and Systems, 83, pp. 442-451. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85069528748&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-24986-1_35&partnerID=40&md5=fc743c204c17ab4bc1b906b7c8e866fc\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-24986-1_35\
AFFILIATIONS: American University in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina; \
University of Sarajevo, Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina\
ABSTRACT: The performance evaluation in terms of digital forensics tools and software can be characterized as challenging research area due to constant development of technology in the digital world and rise of various manners in which it can be utilized for illegal purposes. There are many developed tools and software for digital forensics, some of them available for a license, and some of them free of charge. However, given that some practitioners from this field argue for commercial while others for open-source software, the reliability of the digital evidence which is collected, analyzed, and presented by both is constantly questioned. Motivated by the dilemma which tool or software for extracting digital evidence to use, we have conducted the review of the existing studies which directed us towards the examination of the performance of two different types of digital forensics tools: Open-source (Linux Autopsy Sleuth Kit) and commercial (Magnet Axiom). The results of the research showed that the open-source digital forensics tool has better performance in comparison to the commercial one. In addition to this conclusion which can be useful for further investigations and research in both practical digital forensics and academic community, we also provide open issues to be addressed in the future. \'a9 Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2020.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 288\
Yang, L., Yang, P., Ni, R., Zhao, Y.\
57210115451;57193388775;55632437300;35304414700;\
Xception-Based General Forensic Method on Small-Size Images\
(2020) Smart Innovation, Systems and Technologies, 157, pp. 361-369. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85069453006&doi=10.1007%2f978-981-13-9710-3_38&partnerID=40&md5=921f8c5ba3464c1ec4f79f83c25da1dc\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-981-13-9710-3_38\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Information Science, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, China; \
Beijing Key Laboratory of Advanced Information Science and Network Technology, Beijing, 100044, China\
ABSTRACT: Developing universal forensic methods that can simultaneously identify multiple image operations to identify the authenticity and processing history of an image has attracted more and more attention. Although numerous forensics tools and methods emerge to detect the traces left by various image operations, the accuracy with current techniques still decreased significantly as the size of the investigated images reduced. To overcome this issue, especially for small-size or highly compressed images, we propose a method using Xception-based convolution neural network. While CNNs-based methods are able to learn features directly from data for classification task, they are not well suited for forensic problems directly in their original form. Hence, we have added magnified layer in the preprocessing layer. The input images are magnified by the nearest neighbor interpolation algorithm in the magnified layer, which can preserve the property of image operations better than other magnified tools, and then input them into the CNN model for classification. Finally, we get adaptive average pooling function from global average pooling to adapt to any size of input pictures. We evaluate the proposed strategy on six typical image processing operations. Through a series of experiments, we show that this approach can significantly improve classification accuracy to 97.71% when the images are of size 64 \'d7 64. More importantly, it outperforms all the existing general purpose manipulation forensic methods. \'a9 Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2020.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: CNN;  Operation detection;  Small-size images;  Xception\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 289\
ul Arafeen, Q., Kamran, A., ul Arifeen, N., Shaikh, A.A., Syed, N.A.\
57209608163;55420462800;57209598214;36165008200;56039790900;\
Threats in the internet of things pertaining to digital data\
(2020) Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, 1001, pp. 13-29. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068226371&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-21248-3_2&partnerID=40&md5=edd5a07093ae31f9729163c5cc05fe7d\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-21248-3_2\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Sciences and Technology, ILMA University, Karachi, Pakistan; \
Faculty of Management Sciences, ILMA University, Karachi, Pakistan; \
Lecturer, Department of Commerce, Federal Urdu University, Karachi, Pakistan\
ABSTRACT: With the advent of Internet of Things (IoT) and the rapid advancements in this area, it is predicted that there will be over ten billions wireless accessories linked to the world of internet. Such devices will serve as the foundations in the field of computer science, impacting the everyday course of life. These wireless devices will be capable of absorbing a huge number of personal and sensitive information to enhance the results. The IoT technology puts the collective data to good use by integrating different data sets together that generates amazing outcomes. This technology, however, poses significant challenges to certain agencies aiming to apply this system in their routine businesses. This paper further highlights various threats and challenges that the IoT presents in digital forensics and assists in the identification of important areas which should be modified in future. Finally, the paper highlights the lack of digital forensic education in Pakistan. \'a9 Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2020.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Challenges;  Digital forensics;  Education;  Evidence;  IoT\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 290\
Pandi, G.S., Wandra, K.H.\
57203336694;35767238600;\
Secured Forensic Framework for Various Users in the Virtualized Environment of Cloud\
(2020) Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, 933, pp. 715-727. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068147135&doi=10.1007%2f978-981-13-7166-0_72&partnerID=40&md5=f2ad5ed24ffe43947293cbc08981af63\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-981-13-7166-0_72\
AFFILIATIONS: L.J.Insitute of Engineering and Technology, Ahmedabad, India\
ABSTRACT: A continuous forensic system, made available on the Cloud Server, which is built and integrated with the architecture of the cloud will help in gathering expedient additional \'93evidences\'94 against certain crimes which could be useful in framing the criminals in the court of Law in any country like, e.g., India, when cloud services are used to commit the crime. The evidences have to fit into the system which are complaint with the policies set by the Law regulatory authorities of India. Most of the software agents generate Log data and store them in an Insistent Database which is centralized by nature. Such centralized systems can be manipulated by certain malicious attackers who can even be the employees of the organizations or the organizations itself to prevent penalties for non-compliance to standard policies if such systems come to notice when a crime is being committed. The manipulation can be to such an extent that the evidences can be modified or even swapped with possibly false Logs to frame some innocent users. This research paper proposes a cloud-based framework termed as Forensics Braced Cloud for gathering of expedient evidences and keeping such crucial expedient evidence Logs in a confidential way on another server not under the control of Cloud service provider. The Logs kept on the Insistent Database are used to publish the evidences and can be later checked by the Law regulatory officer when needed to check the integrity of the evidence termed as evidence of past Logs. The results observed are currently specific to the Prototype environment. \'a9 Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2020.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Authenticity;  Cloud forensic system;  Evidence for past logs;  Insistent database;  Integrity\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopes\
\
ID: 291\
Cozzolino, D., Verdoliva, L.\
55440439700;6506573720;\
Noiseprint: A CNN-Based Camera Model Fingerprint\
(2020) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 15 (1), art. no. 8713484, pp. 144-159. Cited 95 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85065996811&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2019.2916364&partnerID=40&md5=46f53674d7f39598182f22072dea6c63\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2019.2916364\
AFFILIATIONS: Dipartimento di Ingegneria Elettrica e delle Tecnologie dell'Informazione (DIETI), Universit\'e0 degli studi di Napoli Federico II, Naples, 80138, Italy; \
Dipartimento di Ingegneria Industriale (DII), Universit\'e0 degli studi di Napoli Federico II, Naples, 80138, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Forensic analyses of digital images rely heavily on the traces of in-camera and out-camera processes left on the acquired images. Such traces represent a sort of camera fingerprint. If one is able to recover them, by suppressing the high-level scene content and other disturbances, a number of forensic tasks can be easily accomplished. A notable example is the PRNU pattern, which can be regarded as a device fingerprint, and has received great attention in multimedia forensics. In this paper, we propose a method to extract a camera model fingerprint, called noiseprint, where the scene content is largely suppressed and model-related artifacts are enhanced. This is obtained by means of a Siamese network, which is trained with pairs of image patches coming from the same (label +1) or different (label -1) cameras. Although the noiseprints can be used for a large variety of forensic tasks, in this paper we focus on image forgery localization. Experiments on several datasets widespread in the forensic community show noiseprint-based methods to provide state-of-the-art performance. \'a9 2005-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: deep learning;  Digital image forensics;  noise residual;  siamese networks\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 292\
Wei, H., Yao, H., Qin, C., Tang, Z.\
57208687609;52464719400;35732239100;35243875800;\
Automatic Forgery Localization via Artifacts Analysis of JPEG and Resampling\
(2020) Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, 895, pp. 221-234. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85065520987&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-16946-6_18&partnerID=40&md5=20fc3b20a2fb09c16f4510e23afa47f3\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-16946-6_18\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Optical-Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Shanghai for Science and Technology, Shanghai, 200093, China; \
Guangxi Key Lab of Multi-source Information Mining and Security, Guangxi Normal University, Guilin, 541004, China\
ABSTRACT: With the availability of highly sophisticated editing tools, the authenticity of digital images has now become questionable. The level of image tampering is getting higher and higher, and the tampering procedures become more and more complicated. To recognize the tampering area of the original image, the tampered image is usually executed a series of post-processing. This behavior has greatly increased the difficulty of forgery detection. In this paper, a blind JPEG image forgery detection and localization technique based on JPEG and resampling artifacts analysis is proposed. The process of tampering is to first tamper with JPEG images by bitmaps. Then original JPEG image and tampered area are manipulated by a series of operations, that is, the image is enlarged and then saved as JPEG. A novel tampering localization method is presented based on resampling and JPEG blockness artifacts. Theoretical analysis and experimental results show that the proposed method can effectively identify and locate the tampered region of a spliced image with a JPEG-resampling-JPEG operation chain. &#x00A9; 2020, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  JPEG compression;  Operation chain;  Resampling effect\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 293\
Paul, K.H., Akshatha, K.R., Karunakar, A.K., Seshadri, S.\
57208662620;57191953655;23396973300;57208665165;\
SURF Based Copy Move Forgery Detection Using kNN Mapping\
(2020) Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, 944, pp. 234-245. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85065486368&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-17798-0_20&partnerID=40&md5=bace7384fe03e62fc9e9c197ecc254be\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-17798-0_20\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, Manipal Institute of Technology, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka  576104, India; \
Department of Computer Applications, Manipal Institute of Technology, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka  576104, India\
ABSTRACT: Digital images can be edited with the help of photo editing tools to improve or enhance the image quality. On the other hand, digital images can also be subject to manipulations which can alter the visual information being conveyed by the image. The forged images can also be used to spread false information through various media platforms and in some cases may be surreptitiously used as false evidence in a court of law. Therefore, it is crucial to test the authenticity of such images and ensure that it does not spread falsified information. One of the most common types of forgery being used today is copy-move forgery in which one part of the image is copied and placed over another part of the same image in order to either conceal certain details or multiply certain features seen in the original image. This work introduces a method of detecting copy-move forgery in digital images using speeded-up robust features (SURF) to extract keypoints from the image and then uses k-nearest neighbor (kNN) training and mapping to yield accurate matches. The SURF algorithm is capable of performing equally or even exceed the more widely accepted SIFT-based counterparts in terms of ensuring distinctive features, reproducibility, and robustness. As a result, this technique ensures a robust detection of copy move forgery while ensuring lower computational costs compared to the SIFT-based techniques used for the same purpose. \'a9 2020, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: CMFD;  Copy move forgery detection;  Image forensics;  kNN mapping;  SURF\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 294\
Mire, A.V., Malik, S.\
56125588600;57213597180;\
Analysis of forensic fingerprints in facebook images, the universal antiforensic attack\
(2019) PervasiveHealth: Pervasive Computing Technologies for Healthcare, pp. 228-232. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85081178561&doi=10.1145%2f3376067.3376088&partnerID=40&md5=83d63b55de80bb099adca5aa0088c686\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3376067.3376088\
AFFILIATIONS: Terna Engineering College, Navi Mumbai, India\
ABSTRACT: Now days Facebook is used as one of the most effective communication media. Cheaper digital devices have made it easy, to capture, edit and share images on Facebook. Consequently, image integrity is often an issue for these images. Most of the internet images do not use any embedded active security mechanism, such as watermarking and steganography. Hence, passive digital image forensic techniques are often used to investigate these images. These techniques analyze various fingerprints introduced during tampering attacks, e.g. Noise, JPEG fingerprints, resampling artefacts, etc. Anitforensic attacks searches techniques to hide these forensic fingerprints. Most of the antiforensic techniques target a single forensic fingerprint. In this paper, we have investigated some of the very common forensic techniques on Facebook images. We found that JPEG fingerprints fail on Facebook images. In addition, the common resampling detector and noise inconsistency also fail on these images. Hence, Facebook can be considered as the universal antiforensic attack without degrading visual quality of an image. \'a9 2019 Association for Computing Machinery.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Antiforensic attacks;  Factor histogram;  FDPD;  Forensic fingerprint;  JPEG fingerprint;  Resampling artefact\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 295\
Pathak, J., Sankaran, S., Achuthan, K.\
57217015279;56021058900;35483077800;\
A SMART Goal-based Framework for Privacy Preserving Embedded Forensic Investigations\
(2019) Proceedings of the 2019 International Symposium on Embedded Computing and System Design, ISED 2019, art. no. 9096232, pp. 6-10. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85085730868&doi=10.1109%2fISED48680.2019.9096232&partnerID=40&md5=84cdb7362669bfb51a2920938555812e\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISED48680.2019.9096232\
AFFILIATIONS: Center for Cybersecurity Systems and Networks, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Amritapuri, India\
ABSTRACT: Forensic investigations obtain as much information from a crime suspect to gather evidence for the case. However, such investigations performed on embedded devices may invade the privacy of those possessing the devices. An embedded device is a valuable potential source of evidence and also is a personal device consisting of private data. In our research, we discuss the various implications of data privacy laws on embedded device forensics investigations, the role of anti-forensics and propose set of policies and measures for handling the privacy concerns to embedded forensic investigations. We also propose a SMART framework for enabling privacy-preserving embedded digital forensic investigations at every phase of a traditional forensic framework. We scope our work for non-corporate owners of embedded devices who are under criminal investigations for a cyber crime. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 296\
Cantrell, G., Runs Through, J.\
42761002500;57216809486;\
The five levels of data destruction: A paradigm for introducing data recovery in a computer science course\
(2019) Proceedings - 6th Annual Conference on Computational Science and Computational Intelligence, CSCI 2019, art. no. 9071161, pp. 133-138. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85084754756&doi=10.1109%2fCSCI49370.2019.00029&partnerID=40&md5=4ba5cd1410f4976c205727642b34f463\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CSCI49370.2019.00029\
AFFILIATIONS: Southern Utah University, Cedar City, UT, United States; \
Dixie State University, St. George, UT, United States\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics has become a fundamental piece of many cyber security programs across the US, and data recovery is an integral building block of digital forensics. Data recovery can be a difficult topic to cover without a system or organization to the different methods of recovery. The following manuscript offers a structure for introducing data recovery in a digital forensics or information technology course and a method for evaluating the admissibility of recovered files as court evidence based on how the data were recovered. This offers both a framework for teaching data recovery and a way for discussing evidence admissibility. The five levels of destruction paradigm is a result of over a decade of teaching digital forensics in vocational and academic environments in a computer science program. The authors offer up this paradigm in hopes it will be useful to other computer science and digital forensics educators. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Data recovery;  Digital forenics;  Teaching methods\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 297\
Edward, E.O., Ojeniyi, J.A.\
57216439138;57188695354;\
A systematic literature review on digital evidence admissibility: Methodologies, challenges and research directions\
(2019) 2019 15th International Conference on Electronics, Computer and Computation, ICECCO 2019, art. no. 9043250, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85083510107&doi=10.1109%2fICECCO48375.2019.9043250&partnerID=40&md5=9488a9e3b0704111aa31e761ee520b8f\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICECCO48375.2019.9043250\
AFFILIATIONS: Federal University of Technology, Department of Cyber Security Science, Minna, Nigeria\
ABSTRACT: Admissibility of Evidence is the eligibility of particular pieces of evidence for inception as part of the evidence in a case. Admissibility means the character or quality to be accepted and allowed to be presented or introduced as evidence in court. To be admissible means capable of being legally admitted or allowable or permissible as evidence or worthy of gaining entry or being admitted. This study focus on carrying out a systematic literature review and meta-analysis on Digital Evidence Admissibility. The methodology employed in this study was the querying of four academic database resources systematically and fundamentally identifying kinds of literature related to digital evidence admissibility through identification, screening, eligibility and inclusion criteria. The advantage of this study is revealing the gap and trends in digital evidence admissibility as the article published between the period of 2015 through 2018 are relative with the following variation 64%, 21% 7%, for the following respectively, IEEE, Science Direct, ACM Digital library, as well as Research Gate. While at the period under review, 2019 is yet to record publication in the field of research in Digital Evidence Admissibility. The period under review witnessed a low academic publication in the field of Digital Evidence admissibility. This research will aid in projecting future research in the aforementioned research field. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Evidence;  Digital Forensics;  Evidence Admissibility;  Research Database.;  Systematic Review\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 298\
Chopade, M., Khan, S., Shaikh, U., Pawar, R.\
57216288248;57216287581;57202902563;57200941732;\
Digital Forensics: Maintaining Chain of Custody Using Blockchain\
(2019) Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on I-SMAC IoT in Social, Mobile, Analytics and Cloud, I-SMAC 2019, art. no. 9032693, pp. 744-747. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85083023665&doi=10.1109%2fI-SMAC47947.2019.9032693&partnerID=40&md5=8d9fb0fc39b83c717e9e9e7d4d30ef9c\
\
DOI: 10.1109/I-SMAC47947.2019.9032693\
AFFILIATIONS: Sardar Patel Institute of Technology, Department of Information Technology, Mumbai, India\
ABSTRACT: The fundamental aim of digital forensics is to discover, investigate and protect an evidence, increasing cybercrime enforces digital forensics team to have more accurate evidence handling. This makes digital evidence as an important factor to link individual with criminal activity. In this procedure of forensics investigation, maintaining integrity of the evidence plays an important role. A chain of custody refers to a process of recording and preserving details of digital evidence from collection to presenting in court of law. It becomes a necessary objective to ensure that the evidence provided to the court remains original and authentic without tampering. Aim is to transfer these digital evidences securely using encryption techniques. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: assets;  Base64;  blockchain;  chain of custody;  distributed ledger;  hyperledger composer;  participants;  security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 299\
Liang, Y., Fang, Y., Luo, S., Chen, B.\
57207822834;7403457875;57207831569;57192065885;\
Image Resampling Detection Based on Convolutional Neural Network\
(2019) Proceedings - 2019 15th International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Security, CIS 2019, art. no. 9023704, pp. 257-261. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85082298441&doi=10.1109%2fCIS.2019.00061&partnerID=40&md5=37d64180924d064886e86d968dd58b96\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CIS.2019.00061\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Data and Computer Science, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China\
ABSTRACT: When an image is under tamper, resampling is one of the most common way to cover the tampering artifacts. With the development of tamper tools, it is difficult to detect the trace of resampling through artificial features to verify the integrity of image. Recently, with the great breakthrough of Deep Learning in computer vision, it is necessary to apply it to the field of digital forensic like resampling detection. As is well known that there is a strongly relationship between the pixels and its surroundings in the resampled image, and the Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) is good at learning the underlying relationship. Low-dimensional feature can hardly find out the trace introduced by resampling while high-dimensional feature is capable of doing this. The CNN has excellent feature extraction ability of distinguishing different feature patterns easily in the high-dimensional space. In this paper, we propose a novel resampling detection supervised CNN that can automatically learn the resampling pattern on the basis of residual mapping relationship. Experimental results show that the proposed method has an excellent performance on different resampling factor detection. Moreover, experiments demonstrate the robustness against the noise of the proposed method. After noise is introduced into the resampled images, our method still learn image resampling pattern and effectively distinguish images with different resampling factors. By detecting the resampled image generated by bilinear interpolation, it is shown that our method is aimed at the resampling pattern rather than the feature pattern of cubic interpolation. Finally, the resampling blind detection experiment show that the proposed CNN can indeed detect the resampling feature pattern. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Convolutional Neural Network;  Deep Learning;  Forensics;  Image Resampling Detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 300\
Bakhshi, T.\
28267483700;\
Forensic of Things: Revisiting Digital Forensic Investigations in Internet of Things\
(2019) 2019 4th International Conference on Emerging Trends in Engineering, Sciences and Technology, ICEEST 2019, art. no. 8981675, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85081064036&doi=10.1109%2fICEEST48626.2019.8981675&partnerID=40&md5=f8c04a174958da86e3d3d88ac3d9061b\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICEEST48626.2019.8981675\
AFFILIATIONS: National University of Computer Emerging Sciences, Center for Information Management Cyber Security, Lahore, Pakistan\
ABSTRACT: The emerging paradigm of Internet of Things (IoT) promises automation, real-time monitoring and management of critical infrastructure(s) allowing optimized productivity in consumer and commercial concerns. Diversity in IoT devices, communication protocols, and the extensive data generated by IoT-ware requires robust incident response primitives to counter IoT related cyber-attacks and deter cybercrimes. Although substantial work is underway in improving IoT security, there is a fundamental requirement to address the forensic requisites that may aid forensic investigators and law enforcement agencies (LEAs) in prosecuting IoT related cybercrimes. IoT presents substantial forensic challenges in terms of evidence source identification, artefact acquisition, insufficiency of IoT-specific forensic tools and techniques, and issues in multijurisdictional litigation. To this effect, the present papers comprehensively reviews the applicability of traditional, cloud and network forensics in the IoT domain. State-of-the-art IoT forensic models are critically discussed to highlight their practical applicability. Furthermore, employment of recent enabling technologies including software defined networking and blockchaining is examined in a forensic of things context. The study also discusses and makes recommendations towards the multi-faceted challenges faced by IoT forensic investigators due to non-validated methodologies, leading to deficiencies in operational readiness. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: blockchaining;  cloud computing;  Digital forensics;  Internet of Things;  software defined networking\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 301\
Song, C., Zeng, P., Wang, Z., Li, T., Qiao, L., Shen, L.\
23111298700;8837065200;55890067000;57211431170;57206729255;55962802400;\
Image Forgery Detection Based on Motion Blur Estimated Using Convolutional Neural Network\
(2019) IEEE Sensors Journal, 19 (23), art. no. 8760546, pp. 11601-11611. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85077491349&doi=10.1109%2fJSEN.2019.2928480&partnerID=40&md5=d8e1d55aa3a5c0246975de4119dc2f8c\
\
DOI: 10.1109/JSEN.2019.2928480\
AFFILIATIONS: Key Laboratory of Networked Control Systems, Shenyang Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenyang, 110016, China; \
Liaoning Electric Power Research Institute, State Grid Liaoning Electric Power Co. Ltd., Shenyang, 110016, China; \
State Grid Liaoning Electric Power Co. Ltd., Shenyang, 110006, China; \
Institutes for Robotics and Intelligent Manufacturing, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenyang, 110016, China\
ABSTRACT: Currently images are key evidences in many judicial or other identification occasions, and image forgery detection has become a research hotspot. This paper proposes a novel motion blur based image forgery detection method, which includes three steps. First, a convolutional neural network (CNN)-based motion blur kernel reliability estimation method is proposed, which is used to determine whether an image patch should be involved in the image forgery detection process. Second, a shared motion blur kernels-based image tamper detection method is proposed to detect whether a group of motion blur kernels are projected from the same 3D camera trajectory effectively. Third, a consistency propagation method is proposed to localize tampered regions efficiently. Experiments on synthetic images and natural images show the availability of the proposed method. \'a9 2001-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: deep learning;  Digital forensics;  image tamper detection;  motion blur\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 302\
Li, S., Qin, T., Min, G.\
24366415400;57201521305;7102053498;\
Blockchain-Based Digital Forensics Investigation Framework in the Internet of Things and Social Systems\
(2019) IEEE Transactions on Computational Social Systems, 6 (6), art. no. 8777292, pp. 1433-1441. Cited 17 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85076643100&doi=10.1109%2fTCSS.2019.2927431&partnerID=40&md5=42bb9133fe5ab97a8764810598d12c53\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TCSS.2019.2927431\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Creative Technologies, University of the West of England, Bristol, BS16 1QY, United Kingdom; \
MOE Key Lab for Intelligent Networks and Network Security, Xi'An Jiaotong University, Xi'an, 710049, China; \
Department of Computer Science, College of Engineering, Mathematics, and Physical Sciences, University of Exeter, Exeter, EX4 4QF, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: The decentralized nature of blockchain technologies can well match the needs of integrity and provenances of evidences collecting in digital forensics (DF) across jurisdictional borders. In this paper, a novel blockchain-based DF investigation framework in the Internet of Things (IoT) and social systems environment is proposed, which can provide proof of existence and privacy preservation for evidence items examination. To implement such features, we present a block-enabled forensics framework for IoT, namely, IoT forensic chain (IoTFC), which can offer forensic investigation with good authenticity, immutability, traceability, resilience, and distributed trust between evidential entitles as well as examiners. The IoTFC can deliver a guarantee of traceability and track provenance of evidence items. Details of evidence identification, preservation, analysis, and presentation will be recorded in chains of block. The IoTFC can increase trust of both evidence items and examiners by providing transparency of the audit train. The use case demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed method. \'a9 2014 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics (DF);  evidence items;  internet of things;  provenance\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 303\
Wen, L.\
56438670900;\
Research and system design and implementation of log - Based computer forensics technology\
(2019) Journal of Physics: Conference Series, 1345 (5), art. no. 052033, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85077231731&doi=10.1088%2f1742-6596%2f1345%2f5%2f052033&partnerID=40&md5=5a06389df4bf73e702281deda4a90296\
\
DOI: 10.1088/1742-6596/1345/5/052033\
AFFILIATIONS: Hunan Mass Media Vocational and Technical College, Changsha, China\
ABSTRACT: This thesis is in the "large scale research of Internet information security system" of the background, studied the computer log network forensics technology, focuses on the log forensics analysis and integrity protection and authentication technology, designed and implemented based on computer network system log user behavior forensic analysis system. This paper summarizes the relevant concepts of computer forensics technology, electronic evidence and system log, demonstrates the feasibility of log as electronic evidence, and proposes the realization model of computer network forensics based on system log, and analyzes the problems that should be paid attention to in computer log forensics. This paper studies the key issues in the process of log forensics, including the collection, transmission, preservation, analysis and submission of logs, in which the analysis of log forensics and integrity protection and verification are the focus of the research. Forensic analysis of logs is to mine log records related to intrusion events by analyzing massive log data, which is divided into statistical analysis and correlation analysis. Paper presents the overall structure of the system is designed, and the subsystem module function and working process of description, implements a user behavior based on log computer network forensics analysis system, and from the safety of the system, the log acquisition performance, the integrity of the data transmission performance, the log data, forensic analysis and so on five aspects of the performance of the system were tested and analyzed, the analysis results show that the system has the basic function of the network forensics. \'a9 Published under licence by IOP Publishing Ltd.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 304\
Casey, E.\
9843819800;\
The chequered past and risky future of digital forensics\
(2019) Australian Journal of Forensic Sciences, 51 (6), pp. 649-664. Cited 21 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85061039011&doi=10.1080%2f00450618.2018.1554090&partnerID=40&md5=54a1e5bfc1351f8e3522c22ccb0e0610\
\
DOI: 10.1080/00450618.2018.1554090\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Criminal Sciences, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland\
ABSTRACT: There is weak integration of digital forensics and forensic science, despite over a decade of effort to break down the borders between them. As more criminal investigations involve digital traces in increasing amounts and complexity, the quality of digital forensic results is decreasing and comprehension of cybercrime is diminishing. The consequences of errors and omissions in digital forensics include imprisoning innocent people, leaving dangerous criminals free to perpetrate additional crimes, and continuing victimization of the organizations and people targeted by offences. To mitigate these risks it is necessary to harmonize digital forensics and forensic science, and to strengthen knowledge management throughout decentralized forensic ecosystems. To drive the needed harmonization and knowledge management, there are two essential roles: the investigative advisor with operational experience, and the forensic advisor with scientific background. These advisors can negotiate the borders between police, digital forensic specialists, criminal intelligence analysts and attorneys to cultivate a criminal justice system that treats digital traces effectively, has visibility across criminal activities, and addresses crime and security more strategically. \'a9 2019, \'a9 2019 Australian Academy of Forensic Sciences.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: digital forensics;  digital traces;  forensic advisor;  forensic intelligence;  Forensic science;  knowledge management\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 305\
Cosic, J., Schlehuber, C., Morog, D.\
36462367900;42962391600;57217825727;\
New Challenges in Forensic Analysis in Railway Domain\
(2019) INFORMATICS 2019 - IEEE 15th International Scientific Conference on Informatics, Proceedings, art. no. 9119288, pp. 61-64. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85087645672&doi=10.1109%2fInformatics47936.2019.9119288&partnerID=40&md5=5a71031d26c294c1851ad3d0ff5b6d18\
\
DOI: 10.1109/Informatics47936.2019.9119288\
AFFILIATIONS: DB Netze AG, Information Security Department, Frankfurt am Main, Germany\
ABSTRACT: Traditionally, the railway system was closed, vendor-dependent, old-fashioned with an accent on safety. Digitalization process has not bypassed the railways domain and with new upcoming technology and new functionality in railway domain (digital interlocking system, automated train operation, object recognition, GPS satellites localization, artificial intelligence, predictive maintenance, etc.), traditional railway domain has got a vulnerability that can be exploited.In this paper, authors will deal with this new upcoming railway technology and challenges in digital investigation process, in such kind of environment. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: chain of custody;  cybersecurity in railway;  digital evidence;  digital forensic;  digitalization;  railway security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 306\
Siddiqui, N., Anjum, A., Saleem, M., Islam, S.\
57205209157;57191571378;57207986788;55148532800;\
Social Media Origin Based Image Tracing Using Deep CNN\
(2019) Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference Image Information Processing, 2019-November, art. no. 8985933, pp. 97-101. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85085161228&doi=10.1109%2fICIIP47207.2019.8985933&partnerID=40&md5=b8ea919aee875ea222268eb87f74aad5\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICIIP47207.2019.8985933\
AFFILIATIONS: Zakir Husain College of Engineering and Technology, Aligarh Muslim University, Department of Computer Engineering, Aligarh, UP, 202002, India\
ABSTRACT: determining information regarding provenance of the digital images is challenging for image forensic scientific community as it employs tracing of the crucial yet hidden signatures associated with the images. Improving image content's history can be deliberated to mark an investigation for the assessment of the image by knowing its acquisition device or, model as the basis of investigations in certain direction. The fundamental approach for going back to image's provenance would involve revealing every subsequent postprocessing, like filtering or an interpolation achieved, applied on the uploaded image. This paper presents a model to uncover such distinct traces by exploiting Deep Learning (DL) based methods to examine the image origin in social networks, and particularly attempts to perceive from which social network the specific image has been downloaded. Here DL- based effective Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) is proposed to differentiate the image path in corresponding social media platform. In this work images uploaded/ downloaded from multiple social media paths are investigated to predict the image with correct class of media path. Along with source path identification, this work is expanded to carry out the social media distinction in spite of diverse JPEG quality factor. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: CNN;  image forensics;  image provenance;  multiple uploads/ downloads;  social networks\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 307\
Sharma, B.K., Joseph, M.A., Jacob, B., Miranda, B.\
57208721137;57216767234;57216768647;57216767801;\
Emerging trends in Digital Forensic and Cyber security-An Overview\
(2019) ITT 2019 - Information Technology Trends: Emerging Technologies Blockchain and IoT, art. no. 9075101, pp. 309-313. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85084615175&doi=10.1109%2fITT48889.2019.9075101&partnerID=40&md5=f323ed950cb84c2a5d2ac6549000f350\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ITT48889.2019.9075101\
AFFILIATIONS: Amity University, Department of Forensic Science, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; \
Business Development, Digital Insight, Dubai, United Arab Emirates\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics is the application of forensic and scientific knowledge to retrieve information legally from any digital device such as computers and smartphones. This legally fetched information is then presented as a piece of evidence in the courtroom further. Computer forensics also refers to digital forensics. It is the fusion of domains such as network forensics, server forensics, computer forensics, internet forensics, social media forensics, memory forensics, online gaming, data/disk forensics, and VR forensics. While investigating digital crimes, different steps are involved. These include the identification, recovery, investigation, validation, and presentation of evidence. Recent research has demonstrated the immense succession of cyber threats and attacks, requiring forensic experts and forensic scientists to simplify the digital world system. Since digital forensics is straightforwardly interconnected to data recovery and data carving, this area is dealing with different technical, legal, and resource challenges. In contrast to that, malware's constant rise allows forensic sector slacking. The objective of the present study was to explore new dimensions of digital forensics such as internet forensics, social media forensics, and IoT forensics in various emerging fields. Together, all our findings allow a better understanding of digital forensics, which can be helpful in forensic investigation. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: approaches;  computer forensic;  cyberattack;  Digital forensic;  malware;  social media forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 308\
Hamdi, D.A., Iqbal, F., Alam, S., Kazim, A., MacDermott, A.\
57194542143;35788088300;57216147567;57210976175;56026399900;\
Drone forensics: A case study on DJI phantom 4\
(2019) Proceedings of IEEE/ACS International Conference on Computer Systems and Applications, AICCSA, 2019-November, art. no. 9035302, . Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85082727375&doi=10.1109%2fAICCSA47632.2019.9035302&partnerID=40&md5=f8dc3240ae49796ec3530b01bff9753b\
\
DOI: 10.1109/AICCSA47632.2019.9035302\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Technological Innovation, Zayed University, United Arab Emirates; \
Liverpool John Moores University, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) (a.k.a drones) have grown in popularity mainly due to its' ease of use, wide variety of uses, availability and inexpensiveness nature of the devices. This rapid proliferation of UAVs has also augmented with several security issues and societal crimes pertaining to the illicit activities, making them rich sources of evidence. Therefore, it is crucial for digital forensics examiners to have the capability to recover, analyze, and authenticate the source of content stored on these devices. In this research, we perform a forensic investigation on an Unmanned Aircraft System, specifically the DJI Phantom 4 Vision, using several smartphone devices such as iPhone 6, iPhone 7 Plus, iPhone 10, Samsung Note 3, Samsung S7, Microsoft Lumia, CKTEL G5 Plus and G-Tide_s4 with different operating systems (iOS, Windows Phone and Android). In addition, we investigate and examine the logical backup acquisition of the iPhone 6, iPhone 7 Plus and iPhone 10 mobile devices using Apple iTunes backup utility. It was found that the DJI Phantom 4 App contains a significant amount of forensics data. Moreover, we acquired useful data from the SD card of mobile devices including controller and the drone. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Forensics;  DJI 4;  Drone;  Drone Forensics;  Forensics Investigations;  IoT;  UAV\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 309\
Wu, J., Wang, Z., Zeng, H., Kang, X.\
57215927193;37071414300;56970301000;7102354750;\
Multiple-operation image anti-forensics with WGAN-GP framework\
(2019) 2019 Asia-Pacific Signal and Information Processing Association Annual Summit and Conference, APSIPA ASC 2019, art. no. 9023173, pp. 1303-1307. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85082398260&doi=10.1109%2fAPSIPAASC47483.2019.9023173&partnerID=40&md5=5fdb10fb585eb0c062aa8d24d8db6cbf\
\
DOI: 10.1109/APSIPAASC47483.2019.9023173\
AFFILIATIONS: Guangdong Key Lab of Information Security, School of Data and Computer Science, Sun Yat-sen University, China; \
School of Computer Science Tech., Southwest University of Science and Tech., Mianyang, China\
ABSTRACT: A challenging task in the field of multimedia security involves concealing or eliminating the traces left by a chain of multiple manipulating operations, i.e., multiple-operation anti-forensics in short. However, the existing anti-forensic works concentrate on one specific manipulation, referred as single-operation anti-forensics. In this work, we propose using the improved Wasserstein generative adversarial networks with gradient penalty (WGAN-GP) to model image anti-forensics as an image-to-image translation problem and obtain the optimized anti-forensic models of multiple-operation. The experimental results demonstrate that our multiple-operation anti-forensic scheme successfully deceives the state-of-the-art forensic algorithms without significantly degrading the quality of the image, and even enhancing quality in most cases. To our best knowledge, this is the first attempt to explore the problem of multiple-operation anti-forensics. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 310\
Patil, M.S., Ainapure, B.\
57215204831;55575963200;\
Analysis of Dataset in Private Cloud for Cloud Forensics Using Eucalyptus and Hadoop\
(2019) Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Smart Systems and Inventive Technology, ICSSIT 2019, art. no. 8987923, pp. 767-772. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85080052347&doi=10.1109%2fICSSIT46314.2019.8987923&partnerID=40&md5=824fe3c4c02135046c663b5714773629\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICSSIT46314.2019.8987923\
AFFILIATIONS: SCET, MIT Academy of Engineering, Pune, India; \
Vishwakarma University, Department of Computer Engineering, Pune, India\
ABSTRACT: At present, in most of the areas of research, development and daily usage, almost all platforms and service providers are dependent on cloud computing. To achieve scalability and sustainability, cloud architecture is considered as a result of technological amalgamation. If the design of the architecture is complex in nature, it could have adverse effects on data recoverability and analysis when the system gets compromised. This type of structure introduces issues like inherent architecture flaws, backdoors, code smelling which could lead to exploitable vulnerabilities for hackers and scammers. Likewise, its complex nature puts limits on forensic investigation methods. For such problems, digital forensic provides a solution. It uses the three-stage approach which consists of evidence collection eye-witnessed by the user, evidence preservation in an unaltered way, offline safeguarding of evidence for feigning its collection. Among its various methods like live forensics, timeline analysis, logging, sandboxing, logging is generalized and easy to use method. The proposed work is about digital forensic technique, log analysis, which is the most effective approach to override investigation issues in the cloud environment. Snort, Network Intrusion Detection System (NIDS), will work as a daemon on Eucalyptus private cloud to monitor and log intrusive attempts of network activities on it. Second, the proposed approach will fix the incapability of Eucalyptus to export logs to the rSyslog server. Third, the generated datasets, irrespective of location and format, would be analyzed by Hadoop, for improved analysis of a system. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud Forensics;  Dataset;  Eucalyptus;  Hadoop;  Logs;  Snort\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 311\
Ruriawan, M.F., Anggono, B., Siahaan, I.A., Purwanto, Y.\
57189263801;57215134548;57215139901;55845216400;\
Development of digital evidence collector and file classification system with K-Means algorithm\
(2019) Proceedings - 2019 IEEE Asia Pacific Conference on Wireless and Mobile, APWiMob 2019, art. no. 8964232, pp. 64-68. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85079266387&doi=10.1109%2fAPWiMob48441.2019.8964232&partnerID=40&md5=4e8f5a85c80c4460cc8650067b8529d7\
\
DOI: 10.1109/APWiMob48441.2019.8964232\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electrical Engineering, Telkom University, Bandung, Indonesia\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensic is a branch of forensic science that focuses on research on the usual storage media that electronic users use such as hard disks, flash drives or other devices used on computers. The output is called digital evidence. The purpose of doing digital forensics is to find an evidence that can be used in the investigation of a case, until the evidence becomes valid and could be used as evidence in court. In this research, we implement a system of digital evidence collection, recovery, and file classification application. The classification was done by K-Means clustering algorithm. The system could detect the storage media, duplicate the content, and classify the output using K-Means algorithm. It can help a forensic examiner in the collection, examination, analysis, and reporting phase in accordance with NIST SP 800-86. The application also can assist investigators in managing files in the storage media as digital evidence so that outputs are obtained in accordance with applicable law. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence;  Digital forensic;  K-Means clustering algorithm\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 312\
Manral, B., Somani, G., Choo, K.-K.R., Conti, M., Gaur, M.S.\
57211990868;24833340100;57208540261;15019127200;11339605200;\
A systematic survey on cloud forensics challenges, Solutions, and future directions\
(2019) ACM Computing Surveys, 52 (6), art. no. 124, . Cited 16 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85075598027&doi=10.1145%2f3361216&partnerID=40&md5=2873141aee4dffcd7b4b9506c6e0f63e\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3361216\
AFFILIATIONS: Central University of Rajasthan, Ajmer, India; \
University of Texas at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, United States; \
University of Padua, Padua, Veneto, Italy; \
Indian Institute of Technology, Jammu, Jammu and Kashmir, India\
ABSTRACT: The challenges of cloud forensics have been well-documented by both researchers and government agencies (e.g., U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology), although many of the challenges remain unresolved. In this article, we perform a comprehensive survey of cloud forensic literature published between January 2007 and December 2018, categorized using a five-step forensic investigation process.We also present a taxonomy of existing cloud forensic solutions, with the aim of better informing both the research and practitioner communities, as well as an in-depth discussion of existing conventional digital forensic tools and cloud-specific forensic investigation tools. Based on the findings from the survey, we present a set of design guidelines to inform future cloud forensic investigation processes, and a summary of digital artifacts that can be obtained from different stakeholders in the cloud computing architecture/ecosystem. \'a9 2019 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud forensics;  Cloud network forensics;  Cloud storage artifacts forensics;  Digital forensics in cloud;  Forensic challenges in cloud;  SDN forensics;  VM forensics in cloud\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 313\
Fuller, M., Mazurov, N.\
36968009300;57211625341;\
A Counter-Forensic Audit Trail: Disassembling the Case of The Hateful Eight\
(2019) Theory, Culture and Society, 36 (6), pp. 171-196. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85074552690&doi=10.1177%2f0263276419840418&partnerID=40&md5=41ca39c181115ca113d10d2a503741ab\
\
DOI: 10.1177/0263276419840418\
AFFILIATIONS: University of London, Goldsmiths, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Forensics is proposed as a means to understand, trace, and recompile data and computational activities. It has a securitocratic dimension and one that is being developed as a means of opening processes, events and systems into a more public state. This article proposes an analysis of forces at play in the circulation of a \'91screener\'92 of Quentin Tarantino\'92s The Hateful Eight and associated files, to suggest that forensic approaches used to control flows of data may be repurposed for dissemination. The article maps a brief history of digital forensics and sets out some of its political entailments, indicating further lines of enquiry regarding the inter-relation of technosocial powers constituted in the interactions between forensics and counter-measures. The article proposes that the posthumanities are partially constituted by a renewed relationship between questions of culture, subjectivity, knowledge and the technical. Some propositions for the technical as grounds for cultural politics are made. \'a9 The Author(s) 2019.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: digital;  forensics;  hacking;  piracy;  posthumanities;  software\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 314\
Odom, N.R., Lindmar, J.M., Hirt, J., Brunty, J.\
57211519771;57211515388;57211514745;6507369360;\
Forensic Inspection of Sensitive User Data and Artifacts from Smartwatch Wearable Devices\
(2019) Journal of Forensic Sciences, 64 (6), pp. 1673-1686. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85074301993&doi=10.1111%2f1556-4029.14109&partnerID=40&md5=8e06a5329e3f6f69344df07a6139588e\
\
DOI: 10.1111/1556-4029.14109\
AFFILIATIONS: Marshall University Forensic Science Center, Huntington, WV  25705, United States; \
Virginia Department of Forensic Science, Digital & Multimedia Evidence Section, Richmond, VA  23219, United States\
ABSTRACT: Wearable devices allow users the ability to leave mobile phones behind while remaining connected to the digital world; however, this creates challenges in the examination, acquisition, identification, and analysis of probative data. This preliminary research aims to provide an enhanced understanding of where sensitive user data and forensic artifacts are stored on smartwatch wearable devices, both through utilization as a connected and standalone device. It also provides a methodology for the forensically sound acquisition of data from a standalone smartwatch wearable device. The results identify significant amounts of data on the Samsung\'99 Gear S3 Frontier, greater than that stored on the companion mobile phone. An Apple Watch\'ae Series 3 manual examination method which produces native screenshots was identified; however, the companion mobile phone was found to store the greatest amount of data. As a result of this research, a data extraction tool for the Samsung\'99 Gear S3 Frontier was created. \'a9 2019 American Academy of Forensic Sciences\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: data recovery;  digital forensics;  forensic artifacts;  forensic science;  internet of things;  mobile forensics;  smartwatch wearable devices\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 315\
Hwang, M.G., Park, H.J., Har, D.H.\
55032554100;55917920200;8293531600;\
A method of smart phone original video identification by using unique compression ratio pattern\
(2019) Forensic Science International, 304, art. no. 109889, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85074245493&doi=10.1016%2fj.forsciint.2019.109889&partnerID=40&md5=dc0f1cdf0760c081a373b763b13ac8d9\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2019.109889\
AFFILIATIONS: Forensic Image Analysis Laboratory, Incheon, South Korea; \
Chung-Ang University, Seoul, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Due to enhanced camera performance and easy using convenience, most videos are taken and distributed by smart phones. However, smart phone video file as an evidence needs to be verified. We analyzed digital videos with basic information (resolution, shooting time, frame rate, bit depth, sample rate, and so on) and compressed patterns with unique compression algorithm adjusted to certain models. We also classified them based on their original characters. For analysis, we first estimated the virtual data quantity of a real digital video EXIF information without compression. We then analyzed the correlation between real recorded data and virtual data to calculate the original unique compression pattern. We then proposed a technical standard to identify the origin by comparing original compression ratio and remade video's compression ratio through a video editing software. \'a9 2019\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Edit video identification;  Encoding video;  Video compression;  Video forensic\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 316\
Herrera-Camacho, A., Z\'fa\'f1iga-Sainos, A., Sierra-Mart\'ednez, G., Trangol-Curipe, J., Mota-Montoya, M., Jarqu\'edn-Casas, A.\
8908288100;57214226017;57214230934;57214234403;57192897280;57214218985;\
Design and testing of a corpus for forensic speaker recognition using MFCC, GMM and MLE\
(2019) PervasiveHealth: Pervasive Computing Technologies for Healthcare, pp. 105-109. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85078417313&doi=10.1145%2f3369318.3369330&partnerID=40&md5=6a523eea00cce137fd437d9e154ea1e2\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3369318.3369330\
AFFILIATIONS: Laboratorio de Tecnolog\'edas del Lenguaje, Facultad de Ingenier\'eda, UNAM Ciudad de M\'e9xico, Mexico; \
Grupo de Ingenier\'eda Ling\'fc\'edstica, Instituto de Ingenier\'eda, UNAM Ciudad de M\'e9xico, Mexico\
ABSTRACT: The importance of applying speaker recognition systems in forensic environments has increased in this century. One reason is the use of audio recordings as evidence in trials of every kind. This article presents a voice corpus design with this use in mind, based in recordings from speakers of the Spanish language dialect used in Central Mexico, distinct from any other corpus currently in use. For its evaluation, we used a Mel frequency Cepstral coefficient with a Gaussian Mixture Models for parametrization, and a Maximum Likelihood Estimation approach for classification. Results show an accuracy of more than 93% identification of the speaker at any condition, proving a good recognition model. \'a9 2019 Association for Computing Machinery.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forensic speaker recognition;  Gaussian mixture model;  Maximum likelihood estimation;  Mel frequency cepstral coefficient;  Speech corpus\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 317\
Liu, A., Zhao, Z., Zhang, C., Su, Y.\
23480048200;57192704668;10640209400;55797981700;\
Smooth filtering identification based on convolutional neural networks\
(2019) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 78 (19), pp. 26851-26865. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85007487838&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-016-4251-z&partnerID=40&md5=52faa1b7d4b14db3d8f3a4bc889f39f1\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-016-4251-z\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electronic Information Engineering, Tianjin University, Tianjin, China; \
School of Electrical Engineering and Information, Southwest Petroleum University, Chengdu, 610500, China\
ABSTRACT: The increasing prevalence of digital technology brings great convenience to human life, while also shows us the problems and challenges. Relying on easy-to-use image editing tools, some malicious manipulations, such as image forgery, have already threatened the authenticity of information, especially the electronic evidence in the crimes. As a result, digital forensics attracts more and more attention of researchers. Since some general post-operations, like widely used smooth filtering, can affect the reliability of forensic methods in various ways, it is also significant to detect them. Furthermore, the determination of detailed filtering parameters assists to recover the tampering history of an image. To deal with this problem, we propose a new approach based on convolutional neural networks (CNNs). Through adding a transform layer, obtained distinguishable frequency-domain features are put into a conventional CNN model, to identify the template parameters of various types of spatial smooth filtering operations, such as average, Gaussian and median filtering. Experimental results on a composite database show that putting the images directly into the conventional CNN model without transformation can not work well, and our method achieves better performance than some other applicable related methods, especially in the scenarios of small size and JPEG compression. \'a9 2016, Springer Science+Business Media New York.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Convolutional neural network;  Deep learning;  Digital forensics;  Discrete Fourier transform;  JPEG compression;  Spatial smooth filtering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 318\
Phan-Xuan, H., Le-Tien, T., Nguyen-Chinh, T., Do-Tieu, T., Nguyen-Van, Q., Nguyen-Thanh, T.\
57205620525;6603402351;57208509852;57208514209;57213145876;57191332664;\
Preserving Spatial Information to Enhance Performance of Image Forgery Classification\
(2019) International Conference on Advanced Technologies for Communications, 2019-October, art. no. 8924504, pp. 50-55. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85077571201&doi=10.1109%2fATC.2019.8924504&partnerID=40&md5=2028ad9c8247b80e9ebca3968a806181\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ATC.2019.8924504\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Technology, Dept. of Telecommunications, Ho Chi Minh city, Viet Nam\
ABSTRACT: As there are a huge range of powerful tools to edit images now, the need for verifying the authentication of images is more urgent than ever. While forgery methods are increasingly more subtle that even human vision seems hard to recognize these manipulations, conventional algorithms, which try to detect tampering traces, often pre-define assumptions that limit the scope of problem. Therefore, such methods are unable to encounter forgery methods in general applications. In this paper, we propose a framework that utilizes Deep Learning techniques to detect tampered images. Concretely, the MobileNetV2 network in [21] is modified so that it can be consistent to the task of image forgery detection. We argue that by remaining spatial dimension of early layers, the model is likely to learn rich features in these layers, and then following layers are to abstract these rich features for making a decision whether an image is forged. Besides, we also conduct a comprehensive experiment to prove those arguments. Experimental results show that the architecture-modified network achieves a remarkable accuracy of 95.15%, which surpasses others relying on the original architecture by a large margin up to 12.09%. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Convolutional Neural Network;  Deep Learning;  Image Forensics;  Image Forgery Detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 319\
Pop, G., Mihalache, S., Burileanu, D.\
56028964100;57156253500;6507376997;\
Forensic recognition of narrowband AMR signals\
(2019) 2019 10th International Conference on Speech Technology and Human-Computer Dialogue, SpeD 2019, art. no. 8906279, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85075915636&doi=10.1109%2fSPED.2019.8906279&partnerID=40&md5=5928863f1d6cd615278ed1f0f9de4ce8\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SPED.2019.8906279\
AFFILIATIONS: University Politehnica of Bucharest, Speech and Dialogue Laboratory, Romania\
ABSTRACT: A vast number of audio files are submitted to forensic analysis every year, originating from both lawfully intercepted signals over communication networks and user recording devices. The forensic recognition of such signals in uncompressed format revolves around the detection of single and double adaptive multi-rate (AMR) compression traces, as well as detection of modification traces of AMR signals. Given that the high-bitrate AMR compression traces easily eschew the human sensory scrutiny, there is a large interest in exact interpretation of such traces. In this paper, we propose a method to detect and recognize different narrowband AMR single or double compression modes, using a deep neural network. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Adaptive multi-rate (AMR) compression recognition;  Deep neural networks;  Forensics analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 320\
Asghar, K., Sun, X., Rosin, P.L., Saddique, M., Hussain, M., Habib, Z.\
57189001631;7405626287;7004945120;47562287800;36476370800;23103097500;\
Edge\'96texture feature-based image forgery detection with cross-dataset evaluation\
(2019) Machine Vision and Applications, 30 (7-8), pp. 1243-1262. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85074198120&doi=10.1007%2fs00138-019-01048-2&partnerID=40&md5=c13ecbd4c7ce15668f29a5ba3d87ebc7\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s00138-019-01048-2\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, University of Okara, Okara, Pakistan; \
Department of Computer Science, COMSATS University Islamabad, Lahore Campus, Lahore, Pakistan; \
Department of Computer Science, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; \
School of Computer Science and Informatics, Cardiff University, Cardiff, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: A digital image is a rich medium of information. The development of user-friendly image editing tools has given rise to the need for image forensics. The existing methods for the investigation of the authenticity of an image perform well on a limited set of images or certain datasets but do not generalize well across different datasets. The challenge of image forensics is to detect the traces of tampering which distorts the texture patterns. A method for image forensics is proposed, which employs discriminative robust local binary patterns for encoding tampering traces and a support vector machine for decision making. In addition, to validate the generalization of the proposed method, a new dataset is developed that consists of historic images, which have been tampered with by professionals. Extensive experiments were conducted using the developed dataset as well as the public domain benchmark datasets; the results demonstrate the robustness and effectiveness of the proposed method for tamper detection and validate its cross-dataset generalization. Based on the experimental results, directions are suggested that can improve dataset collection as well as algorithm evaluation protocols. More broadly, discussion in the community is stimulated regarding the very important, but largely neglected, issue of the capability of image forgery detection algorithms to generalize to new test data. \'a9 2019, Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Copy\'96move;  Cross-dataset evaluation;  Image forensics;  Image forgery detection;  Splicing\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 321\
Choo, M.-J., Huh, J.-H.\
57211409653;56438784800;\
Digital forensics system using plc for inter-floor noise measurement: Detailing PLC-Based Android Solution Replacing CCTV-based Solution\
(2019) Electronics (Switzerland), 8 (10), art. no. 1091, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85073790246&doi=10.3390%2felectronics8101091&partnerID=40&md5=a5cecb4ce6e864520ccf420ddf7ff166\
\
DOI: 10.3390/electronics8101091\
AFFILIATIONS: IT Division, KODEHSHI AUK Group, South Korea; \
Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute (ETRI), 218, Gajeong-ro, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, 34129, South Korea; \
Department of Data Informatics, Korea Maritime and Ocean University, Busan, 600-716, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: The neighborly dispute arising from the inter-floor noises has been increasing for the past two decades in Korean apartments or multi-unit houses sometimes leading to a serious consequence. Although there have been some attempts to resolve such a dispute, one of the underlying problems has to be solved first. That is, in addition to identifying the cause for the noise, it is necessary to prove who has actually suffered from the noise itself. Now that many of such a dispute is being settled at the civil court, producing objective evidence has become important. Therefore, digital forensics which is being widely used at the crime scenes by the police or other anti-crime organizations to collect evidences scientifically has begun to receive attention for the purpose of measuring noise levels. This technique has evolved in recent years following the rapid development in IT and ICT technologies but its problem is that such a technique has to be performed by the experts due to its complicated system so that those who need to measure the noise level usually outsource this work spending quite a sum. Thus, this study introduces a digital forensic system design which allows the user to effectively measure the inter-floor or neighborly noises directly and conveniently without much cost. The relevant system elements have been implemented with Java Android. \'a9 2019 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Black box;  Data collection;  Digital forensics system;  ICT;  Inter-floor noises evidence collection;  PLC;  Smart home\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 322\
Singh, K., Kansal, A., Singh, G.\
26635862000;36660766500;57209908810;\
An improved median filtering anti-forensics with better image quality and forensic undetectability\
(2019) Multidimensional Systems and Signal Processing, 30 (4), pp. 1951-1974. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85062596353&doi=10.1007%2fs11045-019-00637-8&partnerID=40&md5=4af6a5c29a292c4de5dec96258e09c3b\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11045-019-00637-8\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, TIET, Patiala, Punjab, India\
ABSTRACT: Median filtering has received considerable attention and popularity for image enhancement and anti-forensics. It can be utilized as an image denoising and smoothing tool to disguise the footprints of image processing operations such as image resampling and JPEG compression. A two-step median filtering anti-forensic framework is proposed in this paper to fool the existing median filtering forensic detectors by hiding the median filtering artifacts. In the proposed framework, a variational deconvolution approach is initially employed to generate a median filtered forgery. Now, this forgery is further processed in the second step by considering Total Variation (TV) based minimization optimization problem to eradicate the median filtering artifacts left during deconvolution operation. Moreover, the proposed TV-based minimization algorithms significantly reduce the unnatural (grainy) noise left during the variational deconvolution. Two types of TV-based minimization problems are suggested, first relies on the TV of energy by considering the image gradient and second on the structure of a given image. The performance of the proposed scheme is evaluated by considering the worst-case and optimal scenarios. The experimental results based on UCID and BOSSBase dataset images demonstrate that the proposed anti-forensic methods provide superior results in terms of image visual quality and forensic undetectability as compared to the existing approaches, with slight increase in computational time. \'a9 2019, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Image retrieval;  Image tampering;  Image variational deconvolution;  Machine learning based forensic detectors;  TV-based minimization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 323\
Al Hwaitat, A.K., Manaseer, S., Al-Sayyed, R.M.H.\
57211961024;24473138700;9639117500;\
A survey of digital forensic methods under advanced persistent threat in fog computing environment\
(2019) Journal of Theoretical and Applied Information Technology, 97 (18), pp. 4934-4954. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85075497275&partnerID=40&md5=67b5132aad0e7a78c1ada780147cc1b8\
\
AFFILIATIONS: King Abdullah the II IT School, University of Jordan, Department of Computer Science, Jordan; \
King Abdullah the II, IT School, University of Jordan, Department of Information Technology, Jordan\
ABSTRACT: DA Digital forensics has been recently become a significant approach to investigate cybercrimes. Several questions exist about the future of this domain. Many researchers have been done in this field for development, they analyzed the challenges within the domain of cloud computing and an advanced persistent threat (APT) attack. These challenges are rapidly increasing as the volume of data increase, and the technology that the attacker used is continually developed. However, the lack of valid evidence data that is due to the diversity of technology, the deployment platforms, and the less effective models for processing huge volume of data as seen in FOG computing whereas there is a limitation in the analysis tools that are using for investigation of cybercrime. The work in this paper represented in two folds the first is a survey and the second is a proposed method. The survey review the current forensic Methods under Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) attack and concentrates on the challenge that faces cybercrime in Fog Environment. The other part surveys Meta-heuristic approach such as particle swarm optimization (PSO) and Frequencies particle swarm optimization (FPSO).Then we propose a unique method, which deals with ambient environment and other ways of dealing at the network level. The proposed method deals with APT attacks in a two-sided manner. The first side identifies the detection and the second side analyzes the behavior of the spread process. The proposed method is based on optimizing the solution using Investigator Digital forensics particle swarm optimization (IDF-PSO) that will be enhanced to detect APT attack that is considered an optimal solution for collecting digital evidence, through to detection and classification APT attack and Study of propagation behavior. \'a9 2005 \'96 ongoing JATIT & LLS\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: APT Attacks;  Cloud computing;  Cyber security;  Digital Forensics;  Fog computing;  Investigation Cyber of Crimes;  Security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 324\
Kumar, A., Kansal, A., Singh, K.\
7408039032;36660766500;26635862000;\
An improved anti-forensic technique for JPEG compression\
(2019) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 78 (18), pp. 25427-25453. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85067653374&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-019-7734-x&partnerID=40&md5=502a2f98bc1bd127c6dc931cee231e39\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-019-7734-x\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, TIET, Patiala, Punjab, India\
ABSTRACT: The availability of numerous powerful image processing tools or software makes it easier to manipulate the digital information without the addition of any footprints. JPEG compression based tampering detectors are generally employed in digital image forensics. An efficient anti-forensic technique is required to measure the capability of JPEG forensic detectors. In this article, an efficient JPEG anti-forensic technique is presented to hide the JPEG compression artifacts in spatial as well as Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT) domain. We initially employ shifted block DCT approach on the considered JPEG compressed image to fill the gaps in the comb-like distribution of DCT coefficients. This shifted block DCT approach led to the addition of dithering noise itself without the need of any adaptive dithering model. Therefore, the computational cost to create a JPEG forgery reduces significantly. The result of this shifted block DCT approach is further processed in the second step by TV (Total variation)-based deblocking operation to remove the blocking artifacts left during the JPEG compression in the spatial domain. The experimental results illustrate that the presented approach has better performance in comparison to the existing techniques in terms of image visual quality and forensic undetectability with highly reduced computational cost. \'a9 2019, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Blocking artifacts;  Double JPEG compression;  JPEG anti-forensics;  TV-based deblocking\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 325\
Hong, J., Park, S.-J., Kim, T., Noh, Y.-K., Kim, S.-W., Kim, D., Kim, W.\
55490727400;57215345592;57215342106;23095341800;55933677600;57195244127;57195237692;\
Malware classification for identifying author groups: A graph-based approach\
(2019) Proceedings of the 2019 Research in Adaptive and Convergent Systems, RACS 2019, pp. 169-174. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85077213167&doi=10.1145%2f3338840.3355684&partnerID=40&md5=3c71dcf4e5bec0878cd25e463dccab17\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3338840.3355684\
AFFILIATIONS: Hanyang University, Seoul, South Korea; \
Attached Institute of ETRI, Daejeon, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: As our lives become increasingly dependent on computer software, the threat of malware attacks is getting greater. By slightly modifying the previous version to avoid malware detection, the attackers can continuously release new malwares with ease. However, malwares released by a group of authors might contain some evidence among them that they are developed by the same group of authors. Such information can be used for digital forensics, law enforcement, and deeper analysis of malwares. In this paper, we propose a graph-based approach to classify author groups of given malware samples. In addition, we propose graph refinement strategies to improve classification accuracies. Via extensive experiments on a real-world dataset, we verify our graph-based classification could benefit author group classification of malwares than traditional feature-based SVM. We also verify the proposed graph refinement strategies increase the accuracy of the classification. \'a9 2019 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Author group identification;  Graph-based classification;  Malware classification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 326\
Falih, M.D., Satrya, G.B.\
57216273872;55547629700;\
Radio Cellular Forensics Analysis: Where is the Adversary?\
(2019) Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE International Conference on Signal and Image Processing Applications, ICSIPA 2019, art. no. 8977780, pp. 208-213. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85084750992&doi=10.1109%2fICSIPA45851.2019.8977780&partnerID=40&md5=ab993cfc5a716d3fa6f148656230d1f9\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICSIPA45851.2019.8977780\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Applied Science, Telkom University, Indonesia\
ABSTRACT: The evolution of mobile cellular communication has been growing rapidly from 1G to 4G. Unfortunately, with this technology comes an increasing risk of cellular cybercrime. This research proposed a novel methodology to reveal the cybercrime adversary's location by using radio cellular forensics. Several tests were conducted to validate the proposed methodology. This research also presented the digital evidence in a forensically sound manner to support the forensics investigators. Finally, it is concluded that the proposed methodology can be used as a reference for investigators, analysts, and police in cybercrime cases. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: adversary;  Cellular forensics;  cybercrime;  digital evidence;  location\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 327\
Zheng, T., Xin, R., Wu, J., Zhao, S., Song, D.\
57215363798;57210335769;57211757716;57215343875;57215350663;\
Research on Blind Forensics of Large Data Compression Traces in Power System\
(2019) Proceedings - 2nd International Conference on Computer Network, Electronic and Automation, ICCNEA 2019, art. no. 8912131, pp. 233-239. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85076761503&doi=10.1109%2fICCNEA.2019.00053&partnerID=40&md5=99f9133911c5d8779a2cf7f667e33084\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICCNEA.2019.00053\
AFFILIATIONS: National Network Hebei Communications Corporation, Data Operation and Maintenance Center, China; \
State Grid Hebei Communications Corporation, Transportation and Inspection Center, China; \
State Grid Hebei Communications Corporation, Integrated Management Department, China; \
State Grid Hebei Electric Power Co., Ltd., Internet Department, China\
ABSTRACT: In order to better carry out quasi-blind forensics of large data compression traces in communication, a blind forensics method for large data compression traces in power communication under the Internet of Things of magnitude is proposed. Firstly, the compressed trace features of power communication big data are collected and analyzed, and data noise reduction processing is carried out according to the characteristic collection results. After noise reduction is completed, the compressed trace features are subjected to blind forensics so as to complete comparison and correction of compressed data and realize blind forensics of compressed trace of power communication big data. Finally, the experiment proves that the blind evidence collection method of large data compression traces in power communication under the lightweight Internet of Things has better practicability than the traditional method. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Blind Evidence Collection;  Data compression;  Electric Power Communication;  Internet of Things;  lightweight\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 328\
Yildirim, I., Bostanci, E., Guzel, M.S.\
57212211363;55364555800;36349844700;\
Forensic Analysis with Anti-Forensic Case Studies on Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant Build-In Smart Home Speakers\
(2019) UBMK 2019 - Proceedings, 4th International Conference on Computer Science and Engineering, art. no. 8907007, pp. 271-273. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85076201368&doi=10.1109%2fUBMK.2019.8907007&partnerID=40&md5=12124aba8fbe2d859650ca8947cdf706\
\
DOI: 10.1109/UBMK.2019.8907007\
AFFILIATIONS: Ankara University, Department of Forensic Informatics, Ankara, Turkey\
ABSTRACT: People's communication with machines is evolving. The process that started with the buttons has evolved to the touchscreen and now people can command to machines just talking with them. The use of smart home assistants, which allows people to control their smart homes, access mail accounts and even order, is becoming increasingly popular. For this reason, it is possible that they will be found at crime scenes soon and carry the value of digital evidence. In this study, the bestselling products Alexa Echo and Google Home were examined in terms of forensic evidence and the data containing digital evidence were found. Then fake activities were created by changing device name, creating fake routine creation and custom skill development. As a result of the investigations, for the cyber security experts or academics working in this field the information was provided about which kind of digital evidence could be found in smart home assistant's activities. Also, difference between real activity and fake activity were elicited against anti-forensic. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Alexa;  Anti-Forensic;  Fake Activity;  Google Assistant;  IoT Forensic\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 329\
Bammey, Q., Von Gioi, R.G., Morel, J.-M.\
57202995904;55664846900;57203072257;\
Reliable demosaicing detection for image forensics\
(2019) European Signal Processing Conference, 2019-September, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85075604500&doi=10.23919%2fEUSIPCO.2019.8903152&partnerID=40&md5=e5daa06b7e6402db4d1a89cbe7a94d7b\
\
DOI: 10.23919/EUSIPCO.2019.8903152\
AFFILIATIONS: CMLA, Cole Normale Suprieure Paris-Saclay, Cachan, France\
ABSTRACT: Visually plausible image forgeries are easy to create even without particular knowledge or skills. However, most forgeries unknowingly alter the underlying statistics of an image. In particular, demosaicing artefacts created by the camera are usually destroyed or modified when the image is tampered. Most of the literature focus on detecting where these traces are destroyed, and generally do it in a way that still requires a visual interpretation. We introduce an a contrario method which detects global demosaicing parameters, and then checks for regions of the image which are inconsistent with these parameters. Detections are guaranteed in the form of a number of false alarms (NFA), which enables the user to control the false positive rate. Such a guarantee is a useful complement to existing methods, and enables inclusion into fully automatic image authentication processes. The source code and an online demo are provided with the article. \'a9 2019,IEEE\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: A contrario;  Artefact detection;  Bayer matrix;  CFA;  CFA interpolation;  Color filter array;  Demosaicing;  Demosaicking;  Filter estimation;  Forgery;  Forgery detection;  Image forgery;  Linear estimation;  Tampering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 330\
Renduchintala, A., Jahan, F., Khanna, R., Javaid, A.Y.\
57205572326;57193580312;37661601800;55613342900;\
A comprehensive micro unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV/Drone) forensic framework\
(2019) Digital Investigation, 30, pp. 52-72. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068928883&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2019.07.002&partnerID=40&md5=ad3d13e1bb64fa90252add032c7e61e7\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2019.07.002\
AFFILIATIONS: Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department, The University of ToledoOH  43606, United States\
ABSTRACT: In the early 1990s, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) were used exclusively in military applications by various developed countries. Now with its ease of availability and affordability in the electronic device market, this aerial vehicular technology has augmented its familiarity in public and has expanded its usage to countries all over the world. However, expanded use of UAVs, colloquially known as drones, is raising understandable security concerns. With the increasing possibility of drones' misuse and their abilities to get close to critical targets, drones are prone to potentially committing crimes and, therefore, investigation of such activities is a much-needed facet. This motivated us to devise a comprehensive drone forensic framework that includes hardware/physical and digital forensics, proficient enough for the post-flight investigation of drone's activity. For hardware/physical forensics, we propose a model for investigating drone components at the crime scene. Additionally, we propose a robust digital drone forensic application with a primary focus on analyzing the essential log parameters of drones through a graphical user interface (GUI) developed using JavaFX 8.0. This application interface would allow users to extract and examine onboard flight information. It also includes a file converter created for easy and effective 3D flight trajectory visualization. We used two popular drones for conducting this research; namely, DJI Phantom 4 and Yuneec Typhoon H. The interface also provides a visual representation of the sensor recordings from which pieces of evidence could be acquired. Our research is intended to offer the forensic science community a powerful approach for investigating drone-related crimes effectively. \'a9 2019 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Drone forensics;  Flight logs;  Interactive visualization;  Unmanned aerial vehicles\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 331\
Bhat, W.A., Jalal, M.F., Khan, S.S., Shah, F.F., Wani, M.A.\
55199596100;57209368147;57209366115;57209366680;57202132834;\
Forensic analysis of Sync.com and FlipDrive cloud applications on Android platform\
(2019) Forensic Science International, 302, art. no. 109845, . Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85067564818&doi=10.1016%2fj.forsciint.2019.06.003&partnerID=40&md5=fe0d4a8f11264246c131f89fcfc174e2\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2019.06.003\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Sciences, University of Kashmir, India\
ABSTRACT: The complex architecture and legal restrictions associated with cloud services make the acquisition of data from servers almost impossible in digital investigations involving cloud services. However, smartphones used to access these cloud services can serve as potential sources. In this paper, we investigate Sync.com and FlipDrive cloud client applications on Android platform for artefacts left behind by user activities. Our experiments demonstrate that rich information arising from user activities is left behind by these applications. This information includes installation details, login credentials, names and timestamps of files uploaded, downloaded, deleted and shared. The study also identifies mechanisms for extracting these artefacts from the devices. These findings assist forensic investigators in performing complete, credible and conclusive digital investigation by allowing them to create complete file management history of these applications. Finally, based on these findings, we make many recommendations relevant to the digital investigation involving these applications. \'a9 2019 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud storage;  Digital investigation;  File operations;  Mobile applications;  Smartphones\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 332\
Tart, M., Pope, S., Baldwin, D., Bird, R.\
54880753500;7102696741;12773918200;21742283500;\
Cell site analysis: Roles and interpretation\
(2019) Science and Justice, 59 (5), pp. 558-564. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85067549367&doi=10.1016%2fj.scijus.2019.06.005&partnerID=40&md5=1c3c180dac64aa27f06c80ebdfd29f75\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.scijus.2019.06.005\
AFFILIATIONS: CCL Forensics Ltd., United Kingdom; \
Principal Forensic Services, United Kingdom; \
Coventry University, United Kingdom\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cellsite analysis;  Digital forensics;  Forensic interpretation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 333\
Raju, B.K., Geethakumari, G.\
55389708100;15768843300;\
SNAPS: Towards building snapshot based provenance system for virtual machines in the cloud environment\
(2019) Computers and Security, 86, pp. 92-111. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85067501335&doi=10.1016%2fj.cose.2019.05.020&partnerID=40&md5=9eeaab50bd1a5a7e721682aaaad404c8\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.cose.2019.05.020\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of CSIS, BITS Pilani Hyderabad Campus, Hyderabad, 500078, India\
ABSTRACT: Recent threats in cloud show the necessity to perform forensics in the cloud environment. But performing forensic investigation in the cloud is different from traditional digital forensics. Cloud characteristics like multi-tenancy, rapid elasticity, diversity, and complexity raise additional challenges for cloud forensics. For each cloud Virtual Machine (VM), there will be several evidences like vdisk, vRAM, Snapshots, Volumes, Service logs, and VM logs. The forensic challenges differ from one evidence to the other. In this paper, we look at the challenges of snapshot acquisition and analysis. In reality, snapshots for a VM may not always exist. To increase their availability, we suggest the use of Cloud Forensic Readiness (CFR) models in which the snapshots are collected before the actual incident. The captured snapshots have to be transferred to the investigators environment via network. Since the cloud VM snapshots will be generally of huge size, transferring them elsewhere for processing may lead to the problem of data gravity. We resolve this problem by designing a framework named SNAPS (Snapshots based Provenance Aware System) which is derived from the existing spatio-temporal models and then customized to suit cloud forensic investigation. The motivation behind proposing SNAPS is to generate provenance for each object in the target virtual machine using its multiple snapshots. Moreover, SNAPS can be used to address various forensic challenges starting from simple to complex ones. Few of those were illustrated with the VM snapshots acquired from the Openstack Cloud Environment. \'a9 2019 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud computing;  Digital forensics;  Forensic readiness;  Snapshot acquisition;  Snapshot analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 334 **SELECTED** SID: 17\
Horsman, G., Errickson, D.\
55366646200;55661632700;\
When finding nothing may be evidence of something: Anti-forensics and digital tool marks\
(2019) Science and Justice, 59 (5), pp. 565-572. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85067423863&doi=10.1016%2fj.scijus.2019.06.004&partnerID=40&md5=b49ce4ae4777ac7569caca47a785f403\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.scijus.2019.06.004\
AFFILIATIONS: Teesside University, Campus Heart, Southfield Rd, Middlesbrough, TS1 3BX, United Kingdom; \
Cranfield Forensic Institute, Defence Academy of the United Kingdom, Cranfield University, ShrivenhamSN6 8LA, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: There are an abundance of measures available to the standard digital device users which provide the opportunity to act in an anti-forensic manner and conceal any potential digital evidence denoting a criminal act. Whilst there is a lack of empirical evidence which evaluates the scale of this threat to digital forensic investigations leaving the true extent of engagement with such tools unknown, arguably the field should take proactive steps to examine and record the capabilities of these measures. Whilst forensic science has long accepted the concept of toolmark analysis as part of criminal investigations, \'91digital tool marks\'92 (DTMs) are a notion rarely acknowledged and considered in digital investigations. DTMs are the traces left behind by a tool or process on a suspect system which can help to determine what malicious behaviour has occurred on a device. This article discusses and champions the need for DTM research in digital forensics highlighting the benefits of doing so. \'a9 2019 The Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti forensics;  Crime;  Digital forensics;  Digital tool marks;  Investigation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 335\
Yan, Q., Yang, R., Huang, J.\
56939813700;56461784400;56057258200;\
Detection of Speech Smoothing on Very Short Clips\
(2019) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 14 (9), art. no. 8649741, pp. 2441-2453. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85067125049&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2019.2900935&partnerID=40&md5=4375eea69869ab82fdc4673ea34b2cd5\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2019.2900935\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Data and Computer Science, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China; \
Guangdong Key Laboratory of Intelligent Information Processing, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, 518060, China; \
Guangdong Key Laboratory of Information Security Technology, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China; \
Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Machine Intelligence and Advanced Computing, School of Data and Computer Science, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China; \
Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Media Security, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, 518060, China; \
National Engineering Laboratory for Big Data System Computing Technology, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, 518060, China\
ABSTRACT: Audio editing software can easily be used to manipulate digital speech for forgery. Smoothing on the tampered boundary is usually performed to eliminate the obvious traces of forgery after tampering. This presents a considerable challenge for the forensic detection of tampered speech because the smoothing model is unknown and the smoothing operation often modifies only several tens of samples with the editing software. In this paper, we propose to apply six filtering models to approximate the smoothing in audio editing software for training the classifier. We analyze the impact of filtering operations on speech signals, especially on differential signals. On the basis of the local variance of the differential signal, we design a simple and yet efficient feature set. Theoretical analysis and extensive experiments show that the proposed features are very effective in detecting several common filtering operations on very short speech clips. The experimental results also show that the proposed method can detect unknown smoothing performed by commonly used audio editing software, such as Cooledit and Adobe Audition. This highlights the promising potential of the proposed method for use as a forgery localization tool of digital speech signals in practical forensic applications. The proposed method is capable of detecting smoothing on very short speech clips containing only several tens of samples and practical forgery used in audio editing software. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: audio forensics;  Audio forgeries;  local variance analysis;  speech smoothing detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 336\
Durmus, E., Korus, P., Memon, N.\
57194786855;35324909800;7005458042;\
Every Shred Helps: Assembling Evidence from Orphaned JPEG Fragments\
(2019) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 14 (9), art. no. 8636549, pp. 2372-2386. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85066619988&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2019.2897912&partnerID=40&md5=23a1964c3ac66b7dbc8885d90701b5ad\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2019.2897912\
AFFILIATIONS: New York University Tandon School of Engineering, Brooklyn, NY  11201, United States\
ABSTRACT: In this paper, we address the problem of forensic photo carving, which serves as one of the key sources of digital evidence in modern law enforcement. We propose efficient algorithms for assembling meaningful photographs from orphaned photofragments, carved without access to file headers, meta-data, or compression settings. The addressed problem raises a novel variant of a jigsaw puzzle with an unknown number of mixed images, missing pieces, and severe brightness and colorization artifacts. We construct an efficient compatibility metric for matching puzzle pieces and a corresponding image stitching procedure which allows us to mitigate these artifacts. To facilitate photo assembly, we perform a forensic analysis of the fragments to provide clues about their location within the frame of the imaging sensor. The proposed algorithm formulates the assembly problem as finding non-overlapping sets in an interval graph spanned over the input fragments. The algorithm exhibits lower computational complexity compared with a popular puzzle-solving approach based on minimal spanning trees. \'a9 2005-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Carving;  data recovery;  jigsaw puzzle;  JPEG coding;  orphaned fragment carving;  photo carving;  photo reconstruction\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 337\
Yan, Q., Yang, R., Huang, J.\
56939813700;56461784400;56057258200;\
Robust copy-move detection of speech recording using similarities of pitch and formant\
(2019) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 14 (9), art. no. 8629277, pp. 2331-2341. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85066483769&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2019.2895965&partnerID=40&md5=98af7676a7b9a164d43e60576bc9caa1\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2019.2895965\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Data and Computer Science, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China; \
Guangdong Key Laboratory of Information Security Technology, Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Machine Intelligence and Advanced Computing, School of Data and Computer Science, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China; \
Guangdong Key Laboratory of Intelligent Information Processing, Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Media Security, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, 518060, China; \
National Engineering Laboratory for Big Data System Computing Technology, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, 518060, China\
ABSTRACT: Copy-move forgery on very short speech segments, followed by post-processing operations to eliminate traces of the forgery, presents a great challenge to forensic detection. In this paper, we propose a robust method for detecting and locating a speech copy-move forgery. We found that pitch and formant can be used as the features representing a voiced speech segment, and these two features are very robust against commonly used post-processing operations. In the proposed algorithm, we first divide the speech recording into voiced speech segments and unvoiced speech segments. We then extract the pitch sequence and the first two formant sequences as the feature set of each voiced speech segment. Dynamic time warping is applied to compute the similarities of each feature set. By comparing the similarities with a threshold, we can detect and locate copy-move forgeries in speech recording. The extensive experiments show that the proposed method is very effective in detecting and locating copy-move forgeries, even on a forged speech segment as short as one voiced speech segment. The proposed method is also robust against several kinds of commonly used post-processing operations and background noise, which highlights the promising potential of the proposed method as a speech copy-move forgery localization tool in practical forensics applications. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: audio forensics;  copy-move detection;  formant;  pitch;  Speech forgeries\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 338\
Sitara, K., Mehtre, B.M.\
55492903000;56042150000;\
Differentiating synthetic and optical zooming for passive video forgery detection: An anti-forensic perspective\
(2019) Digital Investigation, 30, pp. 1-11. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85066410541&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2019.05.001&partnerID=40&md5=4ecbf26c2981490cce323632f175819b\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2019.05.001\
AFFILIATIONS: Madanapalle Institute of Technology & Science, Madanapalle, Andhra Pradesh, India; \
Center of Excellence in Cyber Security, Institute for Development and Research in Banking Technology (IDRBT), Established by Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Hyderabad, India; \
School of Computer and Information Sciences, University of Hyderabad, India\
ABSTRACT: A video can be manipulated using synthetic zooming without using the state-of-the-art video forgeries. Synthetic zooming is performed by upscaling individual frames of a video with varying scale factors followed by cropping them to the original frame size. These manipulated frames resemble genuine natural (optical) camera zoomed frames and hence may be misclassified as a pristine video by video forgery detection algorithms. Even if such a video is classified as forged, forensic investigators may ignore the results, believing it as part of an optical camera zooming activity. Hence, this can be used as an anti-forensic method which eliminates digital evidence. In this paper, we propose a method for differentiating optical camera zooming from synthetic zooming for video tampering detection. The features used for this method are pixel variance correlation and sensor pattern noise. Experimental results on a dataset containing 3200 videos show the effectiveness of the proposed method. \'a9 2019 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Resampling detection;  Video anti-forensics;  Video forensics;  Video forgery;  Video tampering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 339\
Kaur, M., Gupta, S.\
57213886588;55446506500;\
A fusion framework based on fuzzy integrals for passive-blind image tamper detection\
(2019) Cluster Computing, 22, pp. 11363-11378. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85036586627&doi=10.1007%2fs10586-017-1393-3&partnerID=40&md5=b31f5b24306d2630b2c1a91cd36b7330\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s10586-017-1393-3\
AFFILIATIONS: University Institute of Engineering and Technology, Panjab University, Chandigarh, India\
ABSTRACT: The innate complexity and uncertainty in the domain of image forensics has made the application of fusion technology an obligatory requirement. Fuzzy integrals, that provide a meaningful formalism for combining different information sources has gained limited consideration in image forensics. The current paper presents a fuzzy integral based fusion framework for image tamper detection that can exploit the interaction between multiple forensic tools for collaborative decision making. Four tools that expose traces of semantic manipulation based on specific statistical cues are designed that work cohesively to allow detection of forgeries in single image (copy-move), composite image (splicing) and two generic artefacts (double JPEG compression and noise inconsistency). The measurement level fusion of tool outcome is carried out with Sugneo and Choquet integrals as the underlying aggregation operators. The classification competency of each tool is evaluated on a specialized dataset of forged images with the respective forgery trace. The empirical evaluation of the fusion framework for blind tamper detection is carried out on a combined master dataset comprising the various forgery traces under study. The Choquet integral based aggregation exhibits an enhanced classification competency on comparison with other fusion approaches like Feature level, Fuzzy Logic based on if-else rules, Behaviour Knowledge Space, Dempster-Shafer combination and classifier ensemble architecture based on Wolpkart\'92s stacked generalization. \'a9 2017, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Fuzzy-integral;  Image forensics;  Information fusion;  Tamper detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 340\
Rajkumar, R., Roy, S., Manglem Singh, K.\
57188856255;55605775727;7404763400;\
A robust and forensic transform for copy move digital image forgery detection based on dense depth block matching\
(2019) Imaging Science Journal, 67 (6), pp. 343-357. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85073231504&doi=10.1080%2f13682199.2019.1663069&partnerID=40&md5=d37d4beaf9aa91323cefaf6bc6e523e1\
\
DOI: 10.1080/13682199.2019.1663069\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science & Engineering, Assam University, Silchar, India; \
Department of Computer Science & Engineering, National Institute of Technology Manipur, Imphal, India\
ABSTRACT: Copy-move forgery is one of the most popular tampering artefacts in digital images. However, tampering effect in digital images makes the authentication of the processing as untrustworthy. In this paper, a combination of Fourier-Mellin and Zernike moments (FMZM) Transform is proposed which detects the copy-move region with high-speed and low-computational complexity. Here, initially an image is segmented into various blocks using marker controlled watershed management and from that proposed FMZM feature extraction is used which detects duplication. The detected regions are matched with the Dense Depth Reconstruction based lexicographically sorting. Finally, tampered outliers presented at the data are removed through RANSAC (RANdom Sample Consensus) algorithm, in which removed false matches are verified with the morphological operators. The efficiency of proposed method is measured by various performance metrics and this method earned up to 97.56%, 99.98%, and 97.12% for precision, recall, and F1-score performance, respectively. \'a9 2019, \'a9 2019 The Royal Photographic Society.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Blind forgery detection;  block matching;  feature extraction;  outlier removal;  segmentation;  transformation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 341\
Pavlovi\uc0\u263 , A., Gli\'9aovi\u263 , N., Gavrovska, A., Reljin, I.\
57212942709;25929958200;25929175800;6603426911;\
Copy-move forgery detection based on multifractals\
(2019) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 78 (15), pp. 20655-20678. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85062686881&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-019-7277-1&partnerID=40&md5=2b3c1d80b0663930434876b900770eba\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-019-7277-1\
AFFILIATIONS: Telecommunications Department, School of Electrical Engineering, University of Belgrade, Bulevar kralja Aleksandra 73, Belgrade, 11020, Serbia; \
Department of Technical Sciences, State University of Novi Pazar, Vuka Karadzica, Novi Pazar, 36300, Serbia\
ABSTRACT: Digital images and video are the basic media for communication nowadays. They are used as authenticated proofs or corroboratory evidence in different areas like: forensic studies, law enforcement, journalism and others. With development of software for editing digital images, it has become very easy to change image content, add or remove important information or even to make one image combining multiple images. Thus, the development of methods for such change detection has become very important. One of the most common methods is copy-move forgery detection (CMFD). Methods of this type include change detection that occur by copying a part of an image and pasting it to another location within the image. We propose new method for detection of such changes using certain multifractal parameters as characteristic features, as well as common statistical parameters. Before the analysis, images are divided into non-overlapping blocks of fixed dimensions. For each block, the characteristic features are calculated. In order to classify observed blocks, we used metaheuristic method and proposed new semi-metric function for similarity analysis between blocks. Simulation shows that the proposed method provides good results in terms of precision and recall, with low computational complexity. \'a9 2019, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: CMFD (copy-move forgery detection);  H\'f6lder exponent;  Image forensics;  Metaheuristic method;  Multifractal spectrum;  Semi-metric\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 342\
Sree, T.R., Bhanu, S.M.S.\
57213854384;24343028500;\
Secure logging scheme for forensic analysis in cloud\
(2019) Concurrency and Computation: Practice and Experience, 31 (15), art. no. e5143, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85061005426&doi=10.1002%2fcpe.5143&partnerID=40&md5=c2ca56cfc430af4fe6a55fb5010944fa\
\
DOI: 10.1002/cpe.5143\
AFFILIATIONS: National Institute of Technology Tiruchirappalli, Tiruchirappalli, India\
ABSTRACT: Cloud computing has emerged as a prominent technology that provides reliable on-demand cloud services to users. Among the various kind of attacks, Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack is one of the major application layer attacks that target the resources and services running in the cloud. Due to the distributed nature of attacks or crimes in the cloud, the evidence are collected from various components such as the router, switches, hard disk, log traces, and virtual machines. An attacker may collude with the cloud provider or investigators to tamper the log files or by inserting false information or by deleting the malicious activity logs altogether by leaving no trace. Hence, security is the major concern in cloud wherein investigation of crimes and attacks are very difficult. Collecting logs from the cloud providers is very hard since many users share the same network resources and the investigators rely on the providers to access the information. Therefore, in order to preserve the confidentiality, integrity, and authentication of logs, secure logging scheme is proposed to preserve the logs for forensic investigation. This paper highlights the secure logging scheme by extracting the features from logs of all virtual machine instances by double encryption scheme and also deals the integrity of the logs using hashing and verifies the signatures using Bloom filter\'96based R tree (BR tree). Furthermore, the verification is performed using Shamir Secret Sharing (SSS) scheme, and it is responsible for sharing the secret (private) keys to all the three parties, ie, user, investigator, and cloud providers. It is inferred from the experimental results that the proposed scheme requires minimal log processing time, minimal verification time for inserting logs, stores logs in time, and space efficient manner and scalable than existing methods. \'a9 2019 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: advance encryption standard;  cloud forensics;  digital signatures;  elliptic curve cryptography;  Shamir secret sharing\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 343\
K. Vijayalakshmi, K.V., Mahalakshmi, S.D.\
57221096887;38660901700;\
Polar Coordinate and Discrete Wavelet-Based Approach For Copy-Move Forgery Detection\
(2019) Applied Mathematics and Information Sciences, 13, pp. 211-219. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85098186762&doi=10.18576%2famis%2f13s122&partnerID=40&md5=f4ac268354972da33a91a3ae503acc68\
\
DOI: 10.18576/amis/13s122\
AFFILIATIONS: Mepco Schlenk Engineering College, Sivakasi, India\
ABSTRACT: In recent years, digital images have become prevalent in all transactions of all organizations. Many governmental, legal, scientific, and news media organizations rely on digital images to make critical decisions or to use them as a photographic evidence of specific events. The digital image forgery is the process of manipulating the original photographic images to create the forged image. With the availability of powerful image editing tools, numerous image retouching techniques have become practical. Not all such image editing and alterations are harmful. However, malicious-intended modification of image content forms a serious threat to the secure and legal usage of digital images. Hence, there is a great need for digital forensic techniques which could detect such image alterations, forgeries and authenticate the images. The proposed method focuses on copy-move forgery detection using polar coordinate and discrete wavelet-based approaches. In polar coordinate approach, the image is divided into overlapping blocks and each block is converted into polar from which features are extracted. In discrete wavelet-based approach, wavelet-transformed image is divided into overlapping blocks and features are extracted. For similarly matching of blocks correlation coefficients are used. Experiments are conducted on the dataset provided by DVMM Columbia university for copy-move forgery detection.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: block division;  correlation;  discrete cosine transform;  fourier transform;  Image forgery;  polar coordinate;  wavelet\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 344\
Okai, E., Feng, X., Sant, P.\
57207472286;55787092200;6506191580;\
Security and forensics challenges to the MK smart project\
(2019) Proceedings - 2019 IEEE SmartWorld, Ubiquitous Intelligence and Computing, Advanced and Trusted Computing, Scalable Computing and Communications, Internet of People and Smart City Innovation, SmartWorld/UIC/ATC/SCALCOM/IOP/SCI 2019, art. no. 9060136, pp. 1666-1670. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85083552519&doi=10.1109%2fSmartWorld-UIC-ATC-SCALCOM-IOP-SCI.2019.00297&partnerID=40&md5=647ebd978c1528a5a15af25af8fa869b\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SmartWorld-UIC-ATC-SCALCOM-IOP-SCI.2019.00297\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science and Technology, University of Bedfordshire, Luton, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: MK Smart project is a joint initiative which is led by the Open university and supported by Key players such as University of Bedfordshire (Milton Keynes Campus), University of Cambridge, British Telecom (BT), Milton Keynes Council, E. ON, Anglian Water, HR Wallingford Ltd, Satellite Applications Catapult, Community Action MK, Fronesys, Graymatter and Playground Energy. The project is partly funded by HEFCE (the Higher Education Funding Council for England) and led by The Open University with the primarily aim of developing innovative solutions to support the economic growth in Milton Keynes [MK Smart]. MK Data Hub is the central infrastructure to the project which supports the acquisition and management of the big data from various data sources relevant to the city systems. [MK Smart, 2014]. Whilst the data plays crucial part to this project, its forensic value of the data held is also important to the investigation of this project. Data might be required to help in any forensic investigation to be proven in a case of Data integrity. The challenges of security and forensics to this project may be hinderance to its future. Mitigating these challenges can go a long way not only to this project but to other smart cities projects. This paper concentrates on realising the security and forensics challenges of the MK Smart project, primarily looking at the challenges of securing such a huge data on a datahub and concentrating on the best possible way to forensically investigate the large complex data such as the data stored on the Datahub. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-Forensic Tools;  Big Data;  Cyber Security;  Data Mining;  Digital Evidence;  Digital Forensics;  Forensic principles;  Smart Cities\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 345\
Agbedanu, P.R., Wang, P., Nortey, R.N., Odartey, L.K.\
57211664002;55586567500;57209133925;57208131782;\
Forensics in the Cloud: A Literature Analysis and Classification\
(2019) Proceedings - 5th International Conference on Big Data Computing and Communications, BIGCOM 2019, art. no. 8905020, pp. 124-132. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85076104230&doi=10.1109%2fBIGCOM.2019.00027&partnerID=40&md5=3ade515fa71f4da182bbbce208ecd4f1\
\
DOI: 10.1109/BIGCOM.2019.00027\
AFFILIATIONS: Donghua University, China\
ABSTRACT: Although cloud, fog and edge computing have established their strengths and usefulness through characteristics such as low cost, reliability, location sensitivity, wireless connectivity, and geographical accessibility. These strengths and characteristics pose new problems in the area of privacy, security and forensics. In this paper, we present a literature analysis of works done in cloud, edge and fog forensics from 2010 through to 2018. We also present a classification of the works done during this period based on a scheme that consists of eight categories. These categories are models, tools and frameworks, case studies, evidence collection and preservation, evidence examination and analysis, evidence presentation, architecture, legality and law, and survey, comparative study and reviews. We also proposed nine criteria to be considered when designing a good and effective forensic system. Based on our proposed criteria, we evaluated some solutions that have been proposed by other researchers in cloud, fog and edge forensics. In all, we reviewed 281 articles from four publishers and presented statistical analysis of these articles based on their year of publication, the publishing outlet and our classification scheme. We also look at areas that can be considered by researchers for future work. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: cloud computing;  cloud forensic;  edge forensic;  fog forensic;  forensic;  security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 346\
Thantilage, R.D., Le Khac, N.A.\
57203057974;16175564100;\
Framework for the retrieval of social media and instant messaging evidence from volatile memory\
(2019) Proceedings - 2019 18th IEEE International Conference on Trust, Security and Privacy in Computing and Communications/13th IEEE International Conference on Big Data Science and Engineering, TrustCom/BigDataSE 2019, art. no. 8887309, pp. 476-482. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85075171389&doi=10.1109%2fTrustCom%2fBigDataSE.2019.00070&partnerID=40&md5=927b8d41a2d7495eb0a61b0218bcaf00\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2019.00070\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science, University College Dublin, Belfied, Dublin 4, Ireland\
ABSTRACT: The human society today has had to be confronted by the threat posed by criminals who are taking the advantages of social media and instant-messaging apps to conduct their criminal activities. In literature, there are many approaches for forensic acquisition and analysis of these apps. However, most of the approaches mainly focus on non-volatile storage media. Meanwhile, social media and instant-messaging platforms do not usually store information relating to social transactions in non-volatile bases. Hence, in this paper, we propose a framework for volatile memory forensics that is essential for the ready retrieval of evidence. Our approach is based on the retrieval of social media and instant-messaging evidence through the use of string search mechanism extended by the usage of regular expressions and the functionality of match groups. Our approach has been tested and proved to be effective with different social media apps on two popular operating systems: Windows and Mac. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Forensics;  Evidence Retrieval;  Forensic Framework;  Instant Messaging forensics;  Mac Forensics;  Social Media apps forensics;  Volatile Forensics;  Windows Forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 347\
Flores, D.A., Jhumka, A.\
55440895500;6602999213;\
Hybrid logical clocks for database forensics: Filling the gap between chain of custody and database auditing\
(2019) Proceedings - 2019 18th IEEE International Conference on Trust, Security and Privacy in Computing and Communications/13th IEEE International Conference on Big Data Science and Engineering, TrustCom/BigDataSE 2019, art. no. 8887317, pp. 224-231. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85075166760&doi=10.1109%2fTrustCom%2fBigDataSE.2019.00038&partnerID=40&md5=15ae328d8f74134def97f62c5c4e72f4\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2019.00038\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Warwick, Department of Computer Science, Coventry, United Kingdom; \
Escuela Polit\'e9cnica Nacional, Departmento de Inform\'e1tica y Ciencias de la Computaci\'f3n (DICC), Quito, Ecuador\
ABSTRACT: Database audit records are important for investigating suspicious actions against transactional databases. Their admissibility as digital evidence depends on satisfying Chain of Custody (CoC) properties during their generation, collection and preservation in order to prevent their modification, guarantee action accountability, and allow third-party verification. However, their production has relied on auditing capabilities provided by commercial database systems which may not be effective if malicious users (or insiders) misuse their privileges to disable audit controls, and compromise their admissibility. Hence, in this paper, we propose a forensically-aware distributed database architecture that implements CoC properties as functional requirements to produce admissible audit records. The novelty of our proposal is the use of hybrid logical clocks, which compared with a previous centralised vector-clock architecture, has evident advantages as it (i) allows for more accurate provenance and causality tracking of insider actions, (ii) is more scalable in terms of system size, and (iii) although latency is higher (as expected in distributed environments), 70 per cent of user transactions are executed within acceptable latency intervals. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Causality;  Chain of custody;  Database audit;  Database forensics;  Database security;  Hybrid logical clocks;  Provenance;  Role segregation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 348\
Salamh, F.E., Karabiyik, U., Rogers, M.K.\
57210393197;56493051000;7402696818;\
RPAS forensic validation analysis towards a technical investigation process: A case study of yuneec typhoon H\
(2019) Sensors (Switzerland), 19 (15), art. no. 3246, . Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85070556383&doi=10.3390%2fs19153246&partnerID=40&md5=5abe19f30b61764ed78e45839f12421c\
\
DOI: 10.3390/s19153246\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer and Information Technology, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN  47907, United States\
ABSTRACT: The rapid pace of invention in technology and the evolution of network communication has produced a new lifestyle with variety of opportunities and challenges. Remotely Piloted Aerial Systems (RPAS) technology, which includes drones, is one example of a recently invented technology that requires the collection of a solid body of defensible and admissible evidence to help eliminate potential real-world threats posed by their use. With the advent of smartphones, there has been an increase in digital forensic investigation processes developed to assist specialized digital forensic investigators in presenting forensically sound evidence in the courts of law. Therefore, it is necessary to apply digital forensic techniques and procedures to different types of RPASs in order to create a line of defense against new challenges, such as aerial-related incidents, introduced by the use of these technologies. Drone operations by bad actors are rapidly increasing and these actors are constantly developing new approaches. These criminal operations include invasion of privacy, drug smuggling, and terrorist activities. Additionally, drone crashes and incidents raise significant concerns. In this paper, we propose a technical forensic process consisting of ten technical phases for the analysis of RPAS forensic artifacts, which can reduce the complexity of the identification and investigation of drones. Using the proposed technical process, we analyze drone images using the Computer Forensics Reference Datasets (CFReDS) and present results for the Typhoon H aerial vehicle manufactured by Yuneec, Inc. Furthermore, this paper explores the availability and value of digital evidence that would allow a more practical digital investigation to be able to build an evidence-based experience. Therefore, we particularly focus on developing a technical drone investigation process that can be applied to various types of drones. \'a9 2019 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Drone forensics;  Forensic process;  Yuneec Typhoon H\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 349\
Zhang, Q., Xiao, H., Xue, F., Lu, W., Liu, H., Huang, F.\
57205470648;57205320110;57194386653;56900218900;55719322400;7401516898;\
Digital image forensics of non-uniform deblurring\
(2019) Signal Processing: Image Communication, 76, pp. 167-177. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85065656440&doi=10.1016%2fj.image.2019.05.003&partnerID=40&md5=cd47ebed8de4bc5f79899ed98e514f8c\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.image.2019.05.003\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Data and Computer Science, Guangdong Key Laboratory of Information Security Technology, Key Laboratory of Machine Intelligence and Advanced Computing (Ministry of Education), Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China; \
School of Electronics and Information Technology, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China\
ABSTRACT: Non-uniform image deblurring has been extensively studied, but forensics of whether an image is non-uniform deblurred is still an untouched area. In this paper, we firstly propose an approach to localize the non-uniform deblurring in digital images. Firstly, taking advantage of the properties of convolution derivation, multi-derivative gray level co-occurrence matrix (MGLCM) features are proposed to reveal the deblurring artifacts of images. The MGLCM features are extracted from the first and the second order derivative of images. Then sliding window strategy is used. For each sliding window, MGLCM features are extracted and SVMs are exploited to score the detection probability. By changing the scale of the sliding windows, a series of detection probability maps at different scales are obtained. Finally, top-down multi-scale boundary fusion (TMBF) is proposed to get the final detection map. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed approach successfully localize the deblurred regions with a satisfactory performance. \'a9 2019 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital image forensics;  Multi-derivative gray level co-occurrence matrix (MGLCM);  Non-uniform deblurring localization;  Top-down multi-scale boundary fusion (TMBF)\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 350\
Senkyire, I.B., Kester, Q.-A.\
57216648191;55557997000;\
Validation of Forensic Crime Scene Images Using Watermarking and Cryptographic Blockchain\
(2019) 2019 ICDSA International Conference on Computer, Data Science and Applications, ICDSA 2019, art. no. 9404235, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85105193470&doi=10.1109%2fICDSA46371.2019.9404235&partnerID=40&md5=d086a0d20e0b5d89e42a04e27368e0b2\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICDSA46371.2019.9404235\
AFFILIATIONS: Directorate of Information Assurance and Intelligence Research, Critac, Ghana\
ABSTRACT: Images are critical part of investigations, they are referred to and regarded, to gather information, document and create 'memory' of a crime scene. Crime scene images are considered as vital criminal evidence in the court of law; hence, it is imperative that the authenticity of such images be maintained and that they be verifiable. The advancement in technology in this digitally proliferated era allows for easy doctoring of crime scene images. Digital watermarking, and blockchain have been used in other research works to authenticate and verify digital content or digital documents. In this paper we propose the use of watermarking and cryptographic blockchain to validate forensic crime scene images. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: blockchain;  digital content;  digital watermarking\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 351\
Lorch, B., Riess, C.\
57038716300;23393831200;\
Image forensics from chroma subsampling of high-quality JPEG images\
(2019) IH and MMSec 2019 - Proceedings of the ACM Workshop on Information Hiding and Multimedia Security, pp. 101-106. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85069964431&doi=10.1145%2f3335203.3335722&partnerID=40&md5=710e064b946bbfb0a48c5ea0341284f3\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3335203.3335722\
AFFILIATIONS: IT Security Infrastructures Lab, Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-N\'fcrnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany\
ABSTRACT: The JPEG compression format provides a rich source of forensic traces that include quantization artifacts, fingerprints of the container format, and numerical particularities of JPEG compressors. Such a diverse set of cues serves as the basis for a forensic examiner to determine origin and authenticity of an image. In this work, we present a novel artifact that can be used to fingerprint the JPEG compression library. The artifact arises from chroma subsampling in one of the most popular JPEG implementations. Due to integer rounding, every second column of the compressed chroma channel appears on average slightly brighter than its neighboring columns, which is whywe call the artifact a "chroma wrinkle". We theoretically derive the chroma wrinkle footprint in DCT domain, and use this footprint for detecting chroma wrinkles. The artifact is detected with more than 90% accuracy on images of JPEG quality 75 and above. Our experiments indicate that the artifact can also be used for manipulation localization, and that it is robust to several global postprocessing operations. \'a9 2019 Association for Computing Machinery.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forgery localization;  Image forensics;  JPEG compression;  Library fingerprinting\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 352\
Camacho, I.C., Wang, K.\
55385769300;56941997500;\
A simple and effective initialization of CNN for forensics of image processing operations\
(2019) IH and MMSec 2019 - Proceedings of the ACM Workshop on Information Hiding and Multimedia Security, pp. 107-112. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85069955563&doi=10.1145%2f3335203.3335723&partnerID=40&md5=c22fdfd3d66cfa8c9f6dd21d258938d7\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3335203.3335723\
AFFILIATIONS: Univ. Grenoble Alpes, CNRS, Grenoble INP, GIPSA-lab, France\
ABSTRACT: In this paper we present a simple yet effective initialization method for convolutional neural networks (CNNs). The proposed method extends the well-known Xavier initialization and can cope well with CNNs used for forensic detection of image processing operations. Our initialization inherits the simplicity and advantages of the Xavier initialization, and the difference is that our method generates a set of high-pass filters for the initialization of CNN's first layer. This allows us to better identify forensic traces which usually lie towards the high-frequency part of the image.We test the proposed method with two CNNs for two forensic problems, i.e., a multiclass classification problem of a group of image processing operations and a median filtering forensic problem with JPEG post-processing. Experimental results show the utility of our initialization. \'a9 2019 Association for Computing Machinery.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Convolutional neural network;  Deep learning;  Image forensics;  Image manipulation detection;  Initialization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 353\
Qu, S.\
57211333082;\
An approach based on object detection for image forensics\
(2019) 1st International Conference on Industrial Artificial Intelligence, IAI 2019, art. no. 8850791, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85073565018&doi=10.1109%2fICIAI.2019.8850791&partnerID=40&md5=0bdc0922bb6d799fc1e9ed0c646eb23b\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICIAI.2019.8850791\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Automation, Wuhan University of Technology, Wuhan, China\
ABSTRACT: With the development of the Internet and advanced image editing software, the manipulation and propagation of digital image has become easy, and image forensics has become a challenging research area. In order to detect digital image forgery, various digital image forensics techniques have been proposed. Compared to active forensics methods that require embedded additional information, passive forensics methods are more popular because of their wider application scenarios. In this paper, we propose an approach on the basis of the Faster R-CNN network which has a good performance in object detection. There are two channels in our approach. One channel for extracting noise features is additionally added to find the noise inconsistency between the real area and the tampering area. The other original Faster R-CNN network also serves as a channel for extracting features from the original image to find evidence of tampering such as strong contrast differences and unnatural tampering boundaries. We then fuse the features from the two channels through the bilinear collection layer to further detect image tampering traces. Our experiments on four standard image tamper datasets show that the two-channel framework is superior to the single detection network and has better performance than alternative methods that have the flexibility of resizing and compression in the past. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Image forensics;  Object detection;  Passive forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 354\
Xu, W., Yan, J., Chi, H.\
35073269500;55467814000;8888500200;\
A forensic evidence acquisition model for data leakage attacks\
(2019) 2019 IEEE International Conference on Intelligence and Security Informatics, ISI 2019, art. no. 8823391, pp. 53-58. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85072977844&doi=10.1109%2fISI.2019.8823391&partnerID=40&md5=294edaaf2d6ec98e5a3b2b81249a7b8b\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISI.2019.8823391\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Criminal Justice, University of Baltimore, Baltimore, MD, United States; \
Department of Computer Science, Bowie State University, Bowie, MD, United States; \
Department of Computer and Infor. Sciences, Florida A and M University, Tallahassee, FL, United States\
ABSTRACT: Data leakage attack is a serious threat to daily business operations. Reconstructing scenes after attacks is critical because the reconstructed scenarios help security analysts to understand these attacks and prevent future incidents. In this paper, we have proposed a systematic approach to reconstruct attack scenes based on a forensic evidence acquisition model. We first build the model, i.e., data leakage-evidence tree, from which digital forensic examiners can collect forensic evidence, then we formalize the tree and evaluate the semantics of the tree based on the evidence found on digital devices and their supporting environments. Finally, we reconstruct the data leakage scenarios based on the semantics of the tree. Our empirical study reconstructs a data breach scenario using a real-world example. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Attack scene reconstruction;  Cyber security;  Data leakage -evidence tree;  Forensic evidence\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 355\
Wagner, J., Rasin, A., Heart, K., Jacob, R., Grier, J.\
56768652900;9738559600;56543572900;57210134529;45561300400;\
DB3F & DF-Toolkit: The Database Forensic File Format and the Database Forensic Toolkit\
(2019) Digital Investigation, 29, pp. S42-S50. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85069613301&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2019.04.010&partnerID=40&md5=05e4a7c27e018a99c2ec580dcd52b4ec\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2019.04.010\
AFFILIATIONS: DePaul University, Chicago, IL, United States; \
Grier Forensics, United States\
ABSTRACT: The majority of sensitive and personal user data is stored in different Database Management Systems (DBMS). For Example, Oracle is frequently used to store corporate data, MySQL serves as the back-end storage for most webstores, and SQLite stores personal data such as SMS messages on a phone or browser bookmarks. Each DBMS manages its own storage (within the operating system), thus databases require their own set of forensic tools. While database carving solutions have been built by multiple research groups, forensic investigators today still lack the tools necessary to analyze DBMS forensic artifacts. The unique nature of database storage and the resulting forensic artifacts require established standards for artifact storage and viewing mechanisms in order for such advanced analysis tools to be developed. In this paper, we present 1) a standard storage format, Database Forensic File Format (DB3F), for database forensic tools output that follows the guidelines established by other (file system) forensic tools, and 2) a view and search toolkit, Database Forensic Toolkit (DF-Toolkit), that enables the analysis of data stored in our database forensic format. Using our prototype implementation, we demonstrate that our toolkit follows the state-of-the-art design used by current forensic tools and offers easy-to-interpret database artifact search capabilities. \'a9 2019 James Wagner, Alexander Rasin, Karen Heart, Rebecca Jacob, Jonathan Grier\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 356\
Meng, C., Baier, H.\
57210133358;36449072800;\
bring2lite: A Structural Concept and Tool for Forensic Data Analysis and Recovery of Deleted SQLite Records\
(2019) Digital Investigation, 29, pp. S31-S41. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85069613082&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2019.04.017&partnerID=40&md5=475f9347753f4602fb3547cb8fa41ed0\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2019.04.017\
AFFILIATIONS: da/sec Biometrics and Internet Security Research Group, Hochschule Darmstadt, Darmstadt, Germany\
ABSTRACT: As of today mobile applications such as WhatsApp or Skype make use of the SQLite database format to store its data. From an IT forensics point of view it is therefore essential to extract all information related to an SQLite database. In this paper we focus on digital traces in the scope of SQLite that belong to deleted database data. We suggest to make use of a structural approach: we analyse the deletion behaviour of SQLite depending on different database parameters, which affect the erasure of database data. As SQLite pragmas are an important parameter during deletion, we examine the erasure behaviour dependent on the pragmas in use. Based on the results of our analysis, we develop a concept to parse and process deleted records. Our concept is implemented within our tool bring2lite, which is evaluated with respect to a common dataset of SQLite files. The overall result is that bring2lite achieves the highest recovery rate of approximately 53% compared to eight competing programmes. \'a9 2019 Christian Meng, Harald Baier\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Data discovery;  Database forensics;  Mobile device forensics;  SQLite;  Tool testing and development;  Write-ahead log\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 357\
Casey, P., Lindsay-Decusati, R., Baggili, I., Breitinger, F.\
57204357748;57210128749;37261105300;44260893600;\
Inception: Virtual Space in Memory Space in Real Space \'96 Memory Forensics of Immersive Virtual Reality with the HTC Vive\
(2019) Digital Investigation, 29, pp. S13-S21. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85069600114&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2019.04.007&partnerID=40&md5=f8816981b45c25e6d66a1973996dee93\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2019.04.007\
AFFILIATIONS: University of New Haven, 300 Boston Post Rd, West Haven, CT  06516, United States\
ABSTRACT: Virtual Reality (VR) has become a reality. With the technology's increased use cases, comes its misuse. Malware affecting the Virtual Environment (VE) may prevent an investigator from ascertaining virtual information from a physical scene, or from traditional \'93dead\'94 analysis. Following the trend of anti-forensics, evidence of an attack may only be found in memory, along with many other volatile data points. Our work provides the primary account for the memory forensics of Immersive VR systems, and in specific the HTC Vive. Our approach is capable of reconstituting artifacts from memory that are relevant to the VE, and is also capable of reconstructing a visualization of the room setup a VR player was immersed into. In specific, we demonstrate that the VE, location, state and class of VR devices can be extracted from memory. Our work resulted in the first open source VR memory forensics plugin for the Volatility Framework. We discuss our findings, and our replicable approach that may be used in future memory forensics research. \'a9 2019 Peter Casey, Rebecca Lindsay-Decusati, Ibrahim Baggili, Frank Breitinger\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Data recovery;  Memory forensics;  Reverse engineering;  Virtual reality\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 358\
Sayakkara, A., Le-Khac, N.-A., Scanlon, M.\
36722463500;16175564100;52264702800;\
Leveraging Electromagnetic Side-Channel Analysis for the Investigation of IoT Devices\
(2019) Digital Investigation, 29, pp. S94-S103. Cited 12 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85069557351&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2019.04.012&partnerID=40&md5=3fe18ac7fb02c2f904860d79d3a91705\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2019.04.012\
AFFILIATIONS: Forensics and Security Research Group, University College Dublin, Ireland\
ABSTRACT: Internet of Things (IoT) devices have expanded the horizon of digital forensic investigations by providing a rich set of new evidence sources. IoT devices includes health implants, sports wearables, smart burglary alarms, smart thermostats, smart electrical appliances, and many more. Digital evidence from these IoT devices is often extracted from third party sources, e.g., paired smartphone applications or the devices' back-end cloud services. However vital digital evidence can still reside solely on the IoT device itself. The specifics of the IoT device's hardware is a black-box in many cases due to the lack of proven, established techniques to inspect IoT devices. This paper presents a novel methodology to inspect the internal software activities of IoT devices through their electromagnetic radiation emissions during live device investigation. When a running IoT device is identified at a crime scene, forensically important software activities can be revealed through an electromagnetic side-channel analysis (EM-SCA) attack. By using two representative IoT hardware platforms, this work demonstrates that cryptographic algorithms running on high-end IoT devices can be detected with over 82% accuracy, while minor software code differences in low-end IoT devices could be detected over 90% accuracy using a neural network-based classifier. Furthermore, it was experimentally demonstrated that malicious modification of the stock firmware of an IoT device can be detected through machine learning-assisted EM-SCA techniques. These techniques provide a new investigative vector for digital forensic investigators to inspect IoT devices. \'a9 2019 Asanka Sayakkara, Nhien-An Le-Khac, Mark Scanlon\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Electromagnetic side-channel attacks;  Internet of Things;  Software defined radio\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 359 **SELECTED** SID: 18\
Tian, Z., Li, M., Qiu, M., Sun, Y., Su, S.\
9636602700;35189040700;57216130886;56131604800;36644922800;\
Block-DEF: A secure digital evidence framework using blockchain\
(2019) Information Sciences, 491, pp. 151-165. Cited 141 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85063877732&doi=10.1016%2fj.ins.2019.04.011&partnerID=40&md5=4807691a654986605fd4ebb0fadbdaea\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.ins.2019.04.011\
AFFILIATIONS: Cyberspace Institute of Advanced Technology, Guangzhou University, Guangzhou, 510006, China; \
Department of Electrical Engineering, Columbia University, New York City, NY  10027, United States\
ABSTRACT: A secure digital evidence system should ensure that evidence cannot be tampered with and that private information cannot be leaked. Blockchain, a distributed tamper-resistant and privacy-preserving ledger, provides a promising solution for decentralized secure digital evidence systems. However, due to the huge number of digital evidences and the contradiction between the traceability and the privacy of evidence, blockchain faces big data and privacy challenges. To solve the above issues, we propose a secure digital evidence framework using blockchain (Block-DEF) with a loose coupling structure in which the evidence and the evidence information are maintained separately. Only the evidence information is stored in the blockchain, and the evidence is stored on a trusted storage platform. To avoid blockchain bloat, a lightweight blockchain combining a mixed block structure with an optimized name-based practical byzantine fault tolerance consensus mechanism is proposed. To support the traceability and the privacy of evidence, the multi-signature technique is adopted for evidence submission and retrieval. The analytical and experimental results show that Block-DEF is a scalable framework, it guarantees the integrity and validity of evidence, and balances privacy and traceability well. \'a9 2019 Elsevier Inc.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Blockchain;  Digital evidence;  Privacy;  Scalability;  Traceability\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 360\
Ding, X., Zhu, N., Li, L., Li, Y., Yang, G.\
55595491200;8433371900;55839736400;56473710800;8647279200;\
Robust Localization of Interpolated Frames by Motion-Compensated Frame Interpolation Based on an Artifact Indicated Map and Tchebichef Moments\
(2019) IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, 29 (7), art. no. 8403308, pp. 1893-1906. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85059111362&doi=10.1109%2fTCSVT.2018.2852799&partnerID=40&md5=c4c90afc61fe1d755674f0a952004a23\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TCSVT.2018.2852799\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information Science and Engineering, Hunan University, Changsha, 410082, China; \
School of Information and Control Engineering, China University of Mining and Technology, Xuzhou, 221116, China\
ABSTRACT: Motion-compensated frame interpolation (MCFI), a frame-interpolation technique to increase the motion continuity of low frame-rate video, can be utilized by counterfeiters for faking high bitrate video or splicing videos with different frame rates. For existing MCFI detectors, their performances are degraded under real-world scenarios such as H.264/AVC compression, noise, or blur. To address this issue, a robust MCFI detector is proposed to locate interpolated frames. By analyzing the distribution of residual energies within interpolated frames, we observe that there exist strong correlations between artifact regions and high residual energies. Thus, an artifact indicated map is introduced to select candidate artifact regions. Then, Tchebichef moments (TMs) are exploited to characterize the blurring effects or deformed structures among these regions. Specifically, the mean value of absolute high-order TMs of selected regions is used to model these temporal inconsistencies. Finally, a sliding window is adopted to locate interpolated frames, which are further refined by three post-processing operations. Chrominance information is also integrated with luminance information for robust identification of interpolated frames. Extensive experimental results show that compared with the state-of-the-art MCFI detectors, the proposed approach is more robust for compressed videos under various real-world scenarios. \'a9 1991-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: artifacts indicated map;  motion-compensated frame interpolation;  Tchebichef moments;  Video forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 361\
Wieten, R., Prakken, H., Bex, F., Renooij, S.\
57210704357;6602178876;19337095300;6602433107;\
Supporting discussions about forensic Bayesian networks using argumentation\
(2019) Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Law, ICAIL 2019, pp. 143-152. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85071272275&doi=10.1145%2f3322640.3326710&partnerID=40&md5=2999bf00070fb8e0dc8b0b4aeb78ebf5\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3322640.3326710\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information and Computing Sciences, Utrecht University, Netherlands; \
Faculty of Law, University of Groningen, Netherlands; \
Institute for Law, Technology and Society, Tilburg University, Netherlands\
ABSTRACT: Bayesian networks (BNs) are powerful tools that are increasingly being used by forensic and legal experts to reason about the uncertain conclusions that can be inferred from the evidence in a case. Although in BN construction it is good practice to document the model itself, the importance of documenting design decisions has received little attention. Such decisions, including the (possibly conflicting) reasons behind them, are important for legal experts to understand and accept probabilistic models of cases. Moreover, when disagreements arise between domain experts involved in the construction of BNs, there are no systematic means to resolve such disagreements. Therefore, we propose an approach that allows domain experts to explicitly express and capture their reasons pro and con modelling decisions using argumentation, and that resolves their disagreements as much as possible. Our approach is based on a case study, in which the argumentation structure of an actual disagreement between two forensic BN experts is analysed. \'a9 2019 Association for Computing Machinery.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Argumentation support;  Bayesian networks;  Legal reasoning\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 362\
Cozzolino, D., Poggi, G., Verdoliva, L.\
55440439700;7005255639;6506573720;\
Extracting camera-based fingerprints for video forensics\
(2019) IEEE Computer Society Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops, 2019-June, pp. 130-137. Cited 14 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85113877238&partnerID=40&md5=f07f7712a40ad5f757c709406e5d0e35\
\
AFFILIATIONS: University Federico II of Naples\
ABSTRACT: Video source attribution is an important operation in forensics applications. Identifying which specific device or camera model took a video can help in authorship verification, but can be also a precious source of information for detecting a possible manipulation. The key observation is that any physical device leaves peculiar traces in the acquired content, a sort of fingerprint that can be exploited to establish data provenance. Moreover, absence or modification of such traces may reveal a possible manipulation. In this paper, inspired by recent work on images, we train a neural network that enhances the model-related traces hidden in a video, extracting a sort of camera fingerprint, called video noiseprint. The net is trained on pristine videos with a Siamese strategy, minimizing distances between same-model patches, and maximizing distances between unrelated patches. Experiments show that methods based on video noiseprints perform well in major forensic tasks, such as camera model identification and video forgery localization, with no need of prior knowledge on the specific manipulation or any form of fine-tuning. \'a9 2019 IEEE Computer Society. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 363 **SELECTED** SID: 19\
Pieterse, H., Olivier, M., Van Heerden, R.\
55487079900;7101741068;6506752785;\
Evaluation framework for detecting manipulated smartphone data\
(2019) SAIEE Africa Research Journal, 110 (2), pp. 67-76. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85104736989&doi=10.23919%2fSAIEE.2019.8732797&partnerID=40&md5=8ee3ee1760b8706b73e3897d0f44b37d\
\
DOI: 10.23919/SAIEE.2019.8732797\
AFFILIATIONS: Defence, Peace, Safety and Security, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, Department of Computer Science, University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa; \
Department of Computer Science, University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa; \
National Integrated Cyber Infrastructure System, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, Pretoria, South Africa; \
The School of Information and Communication Technology, Nelson Mandela University, Port Elizabeth, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: Ever improving technology allows smartphones to become an integral part of people\'92s lives. The reliance on and ubiquitous use of smartphones render these devices rich sources of data. This data becomes increasingly important when smartphones are linked to criminal or corporate investigations. To erase data and mislead digital forensic investigations, end-users can manipulate the data and change recorded events. This paper investigates the effects of manipulating smartphone data on both the Google Android and Apple iOS platforms. The deployed steps leads to the formulation of a generic process for smartphone data manipulation. To assist digital forensic professionals with the detection of such manipulated smartphone data, this paper introduces an evaluation framework for detecting manipulated smartphone data. The framework uses key traces left behind as a result of the manipulation of smartphone data to construct techniques to detect the changed data. Assessment of the evaluation framework involves three distinct theoretical scenarios that involve the deletion and modification of existing data, as well as a failed attempt to insert fabricated data. The results produced by the evaluation framework suggest the framework can assist with the detection of manipulated smartphone data. The purpose of this research study was to demonstrate the manipulation of smartphone data and present an evaluation framework to detect such manipulated data. \'a9 2019 Springer International Publishing.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android;  Digital forensics;  IOS;  Manipulation;  Mobile forensics;  Smartphone data;  Smartphones\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 364\
Weilbach, W.T., Motara, Y.M.\
57209223475;15521134400;\
Applying distributed ledger technology to digital evidence integrity\
(2019) SAIEE Africa Research Journal, 110 (2), pp. 77-93. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85101838031&doi=10.23919%2fSAIEE.2019.8732798&partnerID=40&md5=0acbe6f1685c37ff245a4e57d93a3fb3\
\
DOI: 10.23919/SAIEE.2019.8732798\
AFFILIATIONS: Rhodes University, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: This paper examines the way in which blockchain technology can be used to improve the verification of integrity of evidence in digital forensics. Some background into digital forensic practices and blockchain technology are discussed to provide necessary context. A particular scalable method of verifying point-in-time existence of a piece of digital evidence, using the OpenTimestamps (OTS) service, is described, and tests are carried out to independently validate the claims made by the service. The results demonstrate that the OTS service is highly reliable with a zero false positive and false negative error rate for timestamp attestations, but that it is not suitable for timesensitive timestamping due to the variance of the accuracy of timestamps induced by block confirmation times in the Bitcoin blockchain. \'a9 2019 South African Institute of Electrical Engineers. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Blockchain;  Digital forensics;  Evidence integrity\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 365\
Korus, P., Memon, N.\
35324909800;7005458042;\
Content authentication for neural imaging pipelines: End-to-end optimization of photo provenance in complex distribution channels\
(2019) Proceedings of the IEEE Computer Society Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2019-June, art. no. 8953353, pp. 8613-8621. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85078731104&doi=10.1109%2fCVPR.2019.00882&partnerID=40&md5=6b9b2c82f38c16a3f85b05776342eb3d\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CVPR.2019.00882\
AFFILIATIONS: New York University, United States; \
AGH University of Science and Technology, Poland\
ABSTRACT: Forensic analysis of digital photo provenance relies on intrinsic traces left in the photograph at the time of its acquisition. Such analysis becomes unreliable after heavy post-processing, such as down-sampling and re-compression applied upon distribution in the Web. This paper explores end-to-end optimization of the entire image acquisition and distribution workflow to facilitate reliable forensic analysis at the end of the distribution channel. We demonstrate that neural imaging pipelines can be trained to replace the internals of digital cameras, and jointly optimized for high-fidelity photo development and reliable provenance analysis. In our experiments, the proposed approach increased image manipulation detection accuracy from 45% to over 90%. The findings encourage further research towards building more reliable imaging pipelines with explicit provenance-guaranteeing properties. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Low-level Vision;  Vision Applications and Systems\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 366\
Salamh, F.E., Karabiyik, U., Rogers, M., Al-Hazemi, F.\
57210393197;56493051000;7402696818;35316766000;\
Drone disrupted denial of service attack (3DOS): Towards an incident response and forensic analysis of remotely piloted aerial systems (RPASs)\
(2019) 2019 15th International Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing Conference, IWCMC 2019, art. no. 8766538, pp. 704-710. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85073887773&doi=10.1109%2fIWCMC.2019.8766538&partnerID=40&md5=4a3afc968e7dce0e953cf0d376d230d8\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IWCMC.2019.8766538\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer and Information, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN  47906, United States; \
School of Electrical Engineering, KAIST, Daejeon, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: According to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the number of Remotely Piloted Air Systems (RPASs), colloquially known as drones, will rapidly increase in the near future. Challenges with drones are focused not only on the security of these devices, but also on the criminal uses for drones which need to be carefully considered. Incident response and forensic analysis of such cases have not been sufficiently addressed by the research community. This paper focuses on incident response of cybercrimes related to drones as well as some possible anti-forensic techniques that could be used to alter digital evidence associated with drones. In addition, this paper also revisits the enacted regulations that purport to restrict the operation of drones in critical infrastructure areas. We evaluate drone incident response by exploring a case study using a hypothetical drone forensic tool to illustrate the acquisition of GPS metadata from both media files and flight logs, with a view towards aiding the incident responders and digital forensic investigators in analyzing illegal flight activities and report such incidents effectively. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Forensic;  Drones;  Encryption Mechanism;  Incident Response\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 367\
Kazim, A., Almaeeni, F., Ali, S.A., Iqbal, F., Al-Hussaeni, K.\
57210976175;57190442804;57210976788;35788088300;34972748800;\
Memory Forensics: Recovering Chat Messages and Encryption Master Key\
(2019) 2019 10th International Conference on Information and Communication Systems, ICICS 2019, art. no. 8809179, pp. 58-64. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85072100291&doi=10.1109%2fIACS.2019.8809179&partnerID=40&md5=28b743c6b88dc59115a8c3d352ae2c33\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IACS.2019.8809179\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Technological Innovation, Zayed University, Dubai, United Arab Emirates; \
Rochester Institute of Technology, Dubai, United Arab Emirates\
ABSTRACT: In this pervasive digital world, we are witnessing an era where cybercriminals are improving their abilities in taking advantage of wide-spread digital devices to perform various malicious activities. By utilizing anti-forensic techniques, cybercriminals are able to erase or alter digital evidence that can otherwise be used against them in court. One of the most critical sources of digital evidence that forensic investigators examine is the physical memory of a digital device, i.e., Random Access Memory (RAM). RAM is a volatile memory containing data that might be of significant value to forensic investigation. RAM, which stores data about recent activities, stores data only when the device is powered on. Once the device powers off, all the data stored in the RAM is lost permanently. Forensic investigators find great value in RAM data and thus need to preserve such data without harming the integrity of the collected evidence. Many existing tools provide the ability to acquire and analyze images of the data stored in RAM. This paper tackles the fundamental topic of security, privacy, and digital forensics. Specifically, this paper examines memory dumps of 4GB Windows 7 computers with the objective of identifying an instant messaging tool and recovering its chat messages, and recovering master encryption keys of volumes encrypted by BitLocker and TrueCrypt. Throughout this paper, we utilize two widely-used tools, namely Volatility and WinHex, due to their various functionalities designed specifically for memory forensic investigation. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: BitLocker;  Clipboard;  Encryption;  Master Key;  Memory Forensics;  Privacy;  Security;  TrueCrypt\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 368\
Grigoras, C., Smith, J.M.\
16052703500;37079762400;\
Forensic analysis of AAC encoding on apple iphone voice memos recordings\
(2019) Proceedings of the AES International Conference, 2019-June, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85071179719&partnerID=40&md5=b53feb35d916f12afe95e44f82945fb6\
\
AFFILIATIONS: National Center for Media Forensics, University of Colorado, Denver, United States\
ABSTRACT: This paper presents a study on forensic analysis of lossy compression artefacts on Apple Voice Memos recordings. Advanced Audio Coding (AAC) is one of the most common digital audio formats that can be found in real forensic casework, such as in Apple and Samsung audio files. Different decoders can be used to convert an original AAC content into a WAV PCM file or audio CD track for further forensic analysis of the signal. The scientific framework and best practice guidelines for forensic authentication of digital audio recordings include lossy compression level analysis of the evidence signal. Reference recordings from the suspect recorder or mobile phone, or a database of reference recordings are necessary for a detailed forensic analysis, including the assessment of previous traces of lossy compression. This article presents the analysis of audio files collected from over 50 different Apple iOS versions, and the lossy compression artefacts left by different digital signal processing. It also proposes a framework and methods to collect original reference AAC files, configure a database for further forensic comparisons, assess the lossy compression traces, report the results as likelihood ratios and error rates, and provides guidelines for AAC lossy compression verifications or identification in real cases when the suspect mobile phone is not available. \'a9 2019 Audio Engineering Society. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 369\
Kelly, F., Forth, O., Kent, S., Gerlach, L., Alexander, A.\
36622075100;37079025700;57191856945;55489972000;57220725787;\
Deep neural network based forensic automatic speaker recognition in VOCALISE using x-vectors\
(2019) Proceedings of the AES International Conference, 2019-June, . Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85071162689&partnerID=40&md5=efb6efe0bc489e000d81c35b1f872359\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Oxford Wave Research Ltd., Oxford, United Kingdom; \
Philipps-Universit\'e4t Marburg, Germany\
ABSTRACT: In this article we present a Deep Neural Network (DNN)-based version of the VOCALISE (Voice Comparison and Analysis of the Likelihood of Speech Evidence) forensic automatic speaker recognition system. DNNs mark a new phase in the evolution of automatic speaker recognition technology, providing a powerful framework for extracting highly-discriminative speaker-specific features from a recording of speech. The latest version of VOCALISE aims to preserve the \'91open-box\'92 philosophy of its predecessors, offering the forensic practitioner flexibility in the configuration and training of all parts of the automatic speaker recognition pipeline. VOCALISE continues to support both legacy and state-of-the-art speaker modelling algorithms, the latest of which is a DNN-based \'91x-vector\'92 framework, a state-of-the-art approach that leverages a DNN to extract compact speaker representations. Here, we introduce the x-vector framework and its implementation in VOCALISE, and demonstrate its powerful performance capabilities on some forensically relevant data. \'a9 2019 Audio Engineering Society. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 370\
Sabir, M.F., Jones, J.H., Liu, H., Mbaziira, A.V.\
57200748323;56434888100;35210887000;56786505700;\
Predicting stealthy watermarks in files using deep learning\
(2019) 7th International Symposium on Digital Forensics and Security, ISDFS 2019, art. no. 8757538, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85070529105&doi=10.1109%2fISDFS.2019.8757538&partnerID=40&md5=3c159440217b77c47f77a9186de9a367\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISDFS.2019.8757538\
AFFILIATIONS: Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department, Catholic University of America, Washington, DC, United States; \
Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA, United States; \
Data Science and Cyber Security Department, Marymount University, Arlington, VA, United States\
ABSTRACT: Digital evidence is a fundamental element in cyber-forensics and judicial processes. However, the work of forensic examiners is becoming more challenging as the volume digital content and files increases. In this paper, we use machine learning especially deep learning to detect stealthy watermarks in various types of files. We use a black box approach which is different from current steganographic and cryptographic methods to find patterns of candidate file locations for hidden data We studied Deep Neural Networks (DNN) to predict stealthy watermarks in files using the deep learning implementation (DL4J) and Multilayer Perceptron (MLP) algorithms as implemented in Weka. We evaluated MLP models by altering the number of neurons and hidden layers while the DL4J models were evaluated by varying the number of dense layers and nodes. For the MLP models, DOCX & PPTX singleton models predicted stealthy watermarks in files with predictive accuracies ranging from 47.5% to 100%; JPEG singleton models registered predictive accuracies ranging from 35% to 65%. Comparatively, HYBRID3 models had predictive accuracies ranging from 42.5% to 95% while HYBRID-OOXML had predictive accuracies of 47.5% to 100%. However, JPEG-DOCX had predictive accuracies 47.5% to 97.5% while JPEG-PPTX had predictive accuracies of 40% to 85%. Furthermore for DL4J models, we only generated HYBRID3 models, which predicted stealthy watermarks in DOCX files with predictive accuracies 100%. The HYBRID3 DL4J model predicted stealthy watermarks in PPTX with predictive accuracies ranging from 55% to 82% while in JPEG, the predictive accuracies from 50% to 52.5%. The major finding with deep learning also revealed improvements in prediction of stealthy watermarks in PPTX files using DL4J models. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyber forensics;  Deep learning;  Deep neural networks;  Machine learning;  Multilayer perceptrons;  Stealthy watermarking\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 371\
Amato, G., Falchi, F., Gennaro, C., Massoli, F.V., Passalis, N., Tefas, A., Trivilini, A., Vairo, C.\
35963890600;22940819900;22334417200;57210119528;56897101400;6701672908;55338187700;36025911700;\
Face verification and recognition for digital forensics and information security\
(2019) 7th International Symposium on Digital Forensics and Security, ISDFS 2019, art. no. 8757511, . Cited 11 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85070520041&doi=10.1109%2fISDFS.2019.8757511&partnerID=40&md5=23828454b2bff56adc15170a24ce9ee4\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISDFS.2019.8757511\
AFFILIATIONS: Inst. of Info. Sci. and Technol. of the Natl. Res. Cncl. of Italy (ISTI-CNR), Via G. Moruzzi 1, Pisa, 56124, Italy; \
Faculty of Information Technology and Communication Sciences, Tampere University, Tampere, Finland; \
Department of Informatics, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece; \
University of Applied Sciences of Southern Switzerland, Department of Innovative Technologies, Digital Forensics Lab., Lugano, Switzerland\
ABSTRACT: In this paper, we present an extensive evaluation of face recognition and verification approaches performed by the European COST Action MULTI-modal Imaging of FOREnsic SciEnce Evidence (MULTI-FORESEE). The aim of the study is to evaluate various face recognition and verification methods, ranging from methods based on facial landmarks to state-of-the-art off-the-shelf pre-trained Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), as well as CNN models directly trained for the task at hand. To fulfill this objective, we carefully designed and implemented a realistic data acquisition process, that corresponds to a typical face verification setup, and collected a challenging dataset to evaluate the real world performance of the aforementioned methods. Apart from verifying the effectiveness of deep learning approaches in a specific scenario, several important limitations are identified and discussed through the paper, providing valuable insight for future research directions in the field. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Deep learning;  Face verification;  Forensics;  Security;  Surveillance\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 372\
Chopade, R., Pachghare, V.K.\
57200983290;35107794800;\
Ten years of critical review on database forensics research\
(2019) Digital Investigation, 29, pp. 180-197. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85064540492&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2019.04.001&partnerID=40&md5=36c19778600c395ad22b04a02ae72917\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2019.04.001\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Engineering & IT, College of Engineering, Pune, India\
ABSTRACT: The database is at the heart of any digital application. With the increased use of high-tech applications, the database is used to store important and sensitive information. Sensitive information storage leads to crimes related to computer activities. Digital forensics is an investigation process to discover any un-trusted or malicious movement, which can be presented as testimony in a court of law. Database forensics is a subfield of digital forensics which focuses on detailed analysis of a database including its contents, log files, metadata, and data files depending on the type of database used. Database forensics research is in its mid age and has not got awareness as compare to digital forensics research. The reason behind this is the internal complications of the database as well as the different dimensions to be considered for analysis. This review paper is focusing on the last ten years of research related to forensic analysis of relational and NoSQL databases along with the study of artifacts to be considered for database forensics. This review of the current state of database forensics research will serve as a resource to move forward as far as research and investigation are concerned. \'a9 2019 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Artifact;  Database forensics;  Digital forensics;  NoSQL;  Recovery;  SQL\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 373\
Yao, H., Ni, R., Zhao, Y.\
57208337527;55632437300;35304414700;\
An approach to detect video frame deletion under anti-forensics\
(2019) Journal of Real-Time Image Processing, 16 (3), pp. 751-764. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85064522104&doi=10.1007%2fs11554-019-00865-y&partnerID=40&md5=4db92dc2d47fbe464d916625d180d8f1\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11554-019-00865-y\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Information Science, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, 100044, China; \
Beijing Key Laboratory of Advanced Information Science and Network Technology, Beijing, 100044, China\
ABSTRACT: As a simple yet effective operation, frame deletion is widely used in video forgery. Many video forensic techniques have been developed to detect this manipulation. Some inter-frame continuity based methods are capable to detect frame deletion as well as locate the frame deletion points precisely. However, due to the simple principle, this kind of inter-frame continuity based methods are vulnerable to anti-forensic strategies. In this paper, we first put forward an inter-frame interpolation as an\'a0anti-forensic operation which is easy to realize. Then, to detect video frame deletion under anti-forensics, the new artifacts introduced by interpolation are analyzed, and we present a global and local joint feature to distinguish the interpolated frames and pristine frames. The feature overcomes the problem of weak residual in HEVC videos, and low dimension ensures the real-time detection. Experimental results show that the anti-forensic view we proposed needs to be considered in frame deletion forensics. In addition, the proposed global and local joint feature can detect frame deletion under anti-forensic operation effectively. \'a9 2019, Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Compression artifacts;  Frame deletion;  Interpolated frames;  Video forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 374\
Arshad, H., Jantan, A., Hoon, G.K., Butt, A.S.\
57204201750;24724481600;57221046309;56414249800;\
A multilayered semantic framework for integrated forensic acquisition on social media\
(2019) Digital Investigation, 29, pp. 147-158. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85064495652&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2019.04.002&partnerID=40&md5=d3115f1fbef580a0178109cbcec82356\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2019.04.002\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science, Universiti Sains MalaysiaPenang  11800, Malaysia; \
CSIRO, Gpo Box, Canberra, 1700, Australia\
ABSTRACT: In recent years, examination of the social media networks has become an integral part of investigations. Law enforcement agencies and legal practitioners frequently utilize social networks to quickly access the information related to the participants of any illicit incident. However, the forensic process needs collection and analysis of the information which is immense, heterogeneous, and spread across multiple social networks. This process is technically intricate due to heterogeneous and unstructured online social networks (OSNs). Hence, creating cognitive challenges and massive workloads for the investigators. Therefore, it is imperative to develop automated and reliable solutions to assist investigators. Capturing the forensic information in the structured form is crucial for automation, sharing, and interoperability. This paper introduces the design of a multi-layer framework; from collection to evidence analysis. The central component of this framework is a hybrid ontology approach that involves multiple ontologies to manage the unstructured data and integrate various social media data collections. This approach aims to find the evidence by automated methods that are trustworthy and therefore admissible in a court of law. \'a9 2019 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Hybrid Ontology model;  Online social network forensics;  Social network analysis;  Social network forensic automation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 375\
Studiawan, H., Sohel, F., Payne, C.\
36005028500;9273356400;8375664600;\
A survey on forensic investigation of operating system logs\
(2019) Digital Investigation, 29, pp. 1-20. Cited 13 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85062516059&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2019.02.005&partnerID=40&md5=a3e2f1df256840fd55b1f88c9380490d\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2019.02.005\
AFFILIATIONS: Discipline of Information Technology, Mathematics and Statistics, Murdoch University, Perth, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Event logs are one of the most important sources of digital evidence for forensic investigation because they record essential activities on the system. In this paper, we present a comprehensive literature survey of the forensic analysis on operating system logs. We present a taxonomy of various techniques used in this area. Additionally, we discuss the tools that support the examination of the event logs. This survey also gives a review of the publicly available datasets that are used in operating system log forensics research. Finally, we suggest potential future directions on the topic of operating system log forensics. \'a9 2019 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Event anomaly;  Event correlation;  Event logs;  Event reconstruction;  Log forensics;  Log tamper detection;  Operating system logs\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 376\
Jeong, D., Lee, S.\
56585345100;36063408400;\
Forensic signature for tracking storage devices: Analysis of UEFI firmware image, disk signature and windows artifacts\
(2019) Digital Investigation, 29, pp. 21-27. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85062462970&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2019.02.004&partnerID=40&md5=89c78baf156bb9bc1a1c11c5c7c182d3\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2019.02.004\
AFFILIATIONS: Digital Forensic Research Center, Korea University, 145 Anam-ro, Seongbuk-Gu, Seoul, 02841, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Tracking storage devices is one of the important fields in digital forensics. The existing methods and tools about registry, event log or IconCache analysis help solving cases on confidential leakage, illegal copying, and security incident cases. However, previous approach has drawback in tracking storage devices such as HDD, SSD, and etc since it was based on the good performance of USB device tracking. Another drawback in previous approach is that it is vulnerable to anti-forensics because the artifacts are dependent on the operating system. This paper introduces a new definition of forensic signature for tracking various storage devices and reviews the known artifacts. Furthermore, this study introduces unidentified artifact stored in UEFI firmware image and independent of operating system. Moreover, this paper develops a methodology for tracking storage devices using forensic signature according to the storage type. \'a9 2019 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital investigation;  Disk forensics;  Disk serial number;  Firmware image analysis;  UEFI\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 377 **SELECTED** SID: 20\
Mothukur, A.R., Balla, A., Taylor, D.H., Teja Sirimalla, S., Elleithy, K.\
57215282280;57215275703;57215285404;57215293771;35576221100;\
Investigation of Countermeasures to Anti-Forensic Methods\
(2019) 2019 IEEE Long Island Systems, Applications and Technology Conference, LISAT 2019, art. no. 8816826, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85072796693&doi=10.1109%2fLISAT.2019.8816826&partnerID=40&md5=1fdef147510434a26854d716b5ac54e0\
\
DOI: 10.1109/LISAT.2019.8816826\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Bridgeport, Bridgeport, CT, United States\
ABSTRACT: Anti-forensic methods have become a deterrent to law enforcement agencies around the world as they seek to prosecute those individuals involved in cybercrimes. These methods and techniques contribute to complicating the process of investigation. This can result in the delay of evidence acquisition and compromise the integrity of the evidence. With the rise in the use of anti-forensic methods, investigators need to work continuously to stay ahead of the rising trend in internet crimes. The following work investigates some of these anti-forensic methods and seeks to summarize some of the countermeasures that can be employed by law enforcement agencies. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 378\
Yuan, H., Ou, B., Tian, H.\
57210115900;36696723900;36615909900;\
Detecting double compression for JPEG images of low quality factor\
(2019) Journal of Electronic Imaging, 28 (3), art. no. 033011, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85069434905&doi=10.1117%2f1.JEI.28.3.033011&partnerID=40&md5=6120f24186265e991efbe67dae956537\
\
DOI: 10.1117/1.JEI.28.3.033011\
AFFILIATIONS: Hunan University, College of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering, Changsha, China; \
People's Public Security University of China, School of Criminal Investigation and Counter Terrorism, Beijing, China\
ABSTRACT: Double JPEG compression is often used to conceal some illegal operations on the source image. Since there exist some traces when an image undergoes double JPEG compression, the detection of double JPEG compression can be used as a tool of digital forensics. In the past decade, researchers have focused on detecting double compression with the same quality factor (QF) but cannot provide reliable results when the QF is approximately below 70. To remedy this, we propose to analyze the low-frequency components and the error image and extract two types of features to improve the detection accuracy. Since the high-frequency components are easily lost in the JPEG compression, the low-frequency components are utilized to extract the reliable features. With this in mind, our method first analyzes the low-frequency discrete cosine transform coefficients and the lost information. Then, the features are extracted to characterize the difference between the two sequential compressions. Finally, the feature set is fed to a support vector machine for classification. Experimental results on two standard image databases verify that our method could improve the detection accuracy of the low QF double compressed JPEG images with the same QF. The average classification accuracy of the different QFs (the range of QF is usually set from 70 to 20) was obtained as 87.75%. \'a9 2019 SPIE and IS&T.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: digital image forensic;  double JPEG compression;  low-quality factor\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 379\
Phan, Q.-T., Boato, G., Caldelli, R., Amerini, I.\
57211990607;8662845900;6603103996;27567536300;\
Tracking Multiple Image Sharing on Social Networks\
(2019) ICASSP, IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing - Proceedings, 2019-May, art. no. 8683144, pp. 8266-8270. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068253688&doi=10.1109%2fICASSP.2019.8683144&partnerID=40&md5=8fb090448f0c3c08c12b2bdd83599b10\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICASSP.2019.8683144\
AFFILIATIONS: DISI, University of Trento, Trento, Italy; \
MICC, University of Florence, Florence, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Social Networks (SN) and Instant Messaging Apps (IMA) are more and more engaging people in their personal relations taking possession of an important part of their daily life. Huge amounts of multimedia contents, mainly photos, are poured and successively shared on these networks so quickly that is not possible to follow their paths. This last issue surely grants anonymity and impunity thus it consequently makes easier to commit crimes such as reputation attack and cyberbullying. In fact, contents published within a restricted group of friends on an IMA can be rapidly delivered and viewed on a SN by acquaintances and then by strangers without any sort of tracking. In a forensic scenario (e.g., during an investigation), succeeding in understanding this flow could be strategic, thus allowing to reveal all the intermediate steps a certain content has followed. This work aims at tracking multiple sharing on social networks, by extracting specific traces left by each SN within the image file, due to the process each of them applies, to perform a multi-class classification. Innovative strategies, based on deep learning, are proposed and satisfactory results are achieved in recovering till triple up-downloads. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: deep learning;  image forensics;  image sharing;  multiple up/downloads;  Social networks\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 380\
Hosler, B., Mayer, O., Bayar, B., Zhao, X., Chen, C., Shackleford, J.A., Stamm, M.C.\
56825704000;56694186600;55309055200;57192545235;57189029493;26039463600;34870520200;\
A Video Camera Model Identification System Using Deep Learning and Fusion\
(2019) ICASSP, IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing - Proceedings, 2019-May, art. no. 8682608, pp. 8271-8275. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068252104&doi=10.1109%2fICASSP.2019.8682608&partnerID=40&md5=2f381f3026410582ea404b1b84d828c0\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICASSP.2019.8682608\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA  19104, United States\
ABSTRACT: While significant work has been conducted to perform source camera model identification for images, little work has been done specifically for video camera model identification. This is problematic because different forensic traces may be left in digital images and videos captured by the same camera. As our experiments in this paper will show, a system trained to perform camera model identification for images yields unacceptably low performance when given video frames from the same cameras. To overcome this problem, new systems for identifying a videos source must be developed. In this paper, we propose a deep learning based system for determining the source camera model that captured a digital video. To do this, we use a convolutional neural network to produce camera model identification scores for small patches taken from video frames. These patches are chosen by a patch selection system that obtains patches from several appropriate frames temporally distributed throughout the video. Forensic information obtained by the CNN is provided to a fusion system, which combines it to produce a single, more accurate identification result. Through a series of experiments, we evaluate several system design choices and show that our system can achieve 95.9% video camera model identification accuracy. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: camera model identification;  convolutional neural networks;  Deep learning;  multimedia forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 381\
Kumar, M., Srivastava, S.\
57201849165;57189987867;\
Image authentication by assessing manipulations using illumination\
(2019) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 78 (9), pp. 12451-12463. Cited 13 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85055931360&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-018-6775-x&partnerID=40&md5=b6be9914735cb008e59eff48de50ca5c\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-018-6775-x\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, ASET, AMITY University, Noida, India; \
Department of Applied Science, The Northcap University, Gurugram, India\
ABSTRACT: With the ever increasing use of digital media, image tampering has become imperative. This spurs the need to identify such tampering for authentication and jurisdiction. The main idea of this paper is an assessment of the possible light source direction from the image. This technique uses the inconsistencies in the light source direction to detect the image forgery. Initially, in the preprocessing step on input image, surface normals are calculated using surface texture profile. RED band is mainly used for obtaining surface texture information and, further, surface normal calculations are done. With estimated illumination profile and normals, the incident angle 
\f3 \uc0\u952 
\f0  i is computed for various chosen image patches. The 
\f3 \uc0\u952 
\f0  i angle is the estimated angle from image object to light source direction. The inconsistency in 
\f3 \uc0\u952 
\f0  i values is used as an evidence of tampering. The proposed technique is tested on different known fake images and is found capable of identifying manipulated objects in an image. This technique works for homogenous illuminated surfaces and has better forgery detection accuracy. Additionally, our technique also diminishes human intervention for forgery detection. The performance of proposed forgery detection technique is examined using CASIA1 image database to give users a feel of the performance. \'a9 2018, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Decorrelation;  Image forensics;  Image manipulation;  Lighting\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 382\
Qiao, T., Shi, R., Luo, X., Xu, M., Zheng, N., Wu, Y.\
56177583700;36959827400;8976166200;56443054200;35274126400;56081577200;\
Statistical model-based detector via texture weight map: Capplication in re-sampling authentication\
(2019) IEEE Transactions on Multimedia, 21 (5), art. no. 8481547, pp. 1077-1092. Cited 19 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85054519041&doi=10.1109%2fTMM.2018.2872863&partnerID=40&md5=977369818baeef4a4f71234c0d37eaff\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TMM.2018.2872863\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Cyberspace, Hangzhou Dianzi University, Hangzhou, 310000, China; \
StateKey Laboratory of Mathematical Engineering and Advanced Computing, Zhengzhou Science and Technology Institute, Zhengzhou, 450001, China; \
School of Computer Science and Engineering, Nanjing University of Science and Technology, Nanjing, 210094, China\
ABSTRACT: The problem of authenticating a re-sampled image has been investigated over many years. Currently, however, little research proposes a statistical model-based test, resulting in that statistical performance of the resampling detector could not be completely analyzed. To fill the gap, we utilize a parametric model to expose the traces of resampling forgery, which is described with the distribution of residual noise. Afterward, we propose a statistical model describing the residual noise from a resampled image. Then, the detection problem is cast into the framework of hypothesis testing theory. By considering the image content with designing a texture weight map, two types of statistical detectors are established. In an ideal context in which all distribution parameters are perfectly known, the likelihood ratio test (LRT) is presented and its performance is theoretically established. An upper bound of the detection power can be successfully obtained from the statistical performance of an LRT. For practical use, when the distribution parameters are not known, a generalized LRT with three different maps based on estimation of parameters is established. Numerical results on simulated data and real natural images highlight the relevance of our proposed approach. \'a9 1999-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Gaussian noise model;  hypothesis testing;  nuisance parameters;  resampling forgery\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 383\
Marra, F., Gragnaniello, D., Verdoliva, L., Poggi, G.\
57209195452;55547170900;6506573720;7005255639;\
Do GANs Leave Artificial Fingerprints?\
(2019) Proceedings - 2nd International Conference on Multimedia Information Processing and Retrieval, MIPR 2019, art. no. 8695364, pp. 506-511. Cited 46 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85065626553&doi=10.1109%2fMIPR.2019.00103&partnerID=40&md5=59bcc08cbcde20f10cb27dc389c4bf07\
\
DOI: 10.1109/MIPR.2019.00103\
AFFILIATIONS: Dep. of Electrical Engineering and Information Technology, University Federico II of Naples, Naples, Italy\
ABSTRACT: In the last few years, generative adversarial networks (GAN) have shown tremendous potential for a number of applications in computer vision and related fields. With the current pace of progress, it is a sure bet they will soon be able to generate high-quality images and videos, virtually indistinguishable from real ones. Unfortunately, realistic GAN-generated images pose serious threats to security, to begin with a possible flood of fake multimedia, and multimedia forensic countermeasures are in urgent need. In this work, we show that each GAN leaves its specific fingerprint in the images it generates, just like real-world cameras mark acquired images with traces of their photo-response non-uniformity pattern. Source identification experiments with several popular GANs show such fingerprints to represent a precious asset for forensic analyses. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: GAN;  image fingerprint.;  Image forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 384\
Lu, R., Li, L.\
55702422800;55992278900;\
Research on forensic model of online social network\
(2019) 2019 IEEE 4th International Conference on Cloud Computing and Big Data Analytics, ICCCBDA 2019, art. no. 8725746, pp. 116-119. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85067503356&doi=10.1109%2fICCCBDA.2019.8725746&partnerID=40&md5=a791c344246a88f8b99ffdf31db465f9\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICCCBDA.2019.8725746\
AFFILIATIONS: Police Information Department, Liaoning Police College, Dalian, China; \
Software College, Dalian University of Foreign Languages, Dalian, China\
ABSTRACT: With the excessive use of online social network, criminals can get enough information about person or organization. Law enforcing agencies to get digital evidence against criminals could use the data from online social network. This paper proposes a forensic model of online social network that provides the functions of evidence acquisition and solidification, evidence document verification, and evidence analysis. This model is illustrated the feasibility with Sina microblog examples of text analysis, hotword frequency analysis, physical location analysis. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: digital evidence;  evidence analysis;  forensic model;  online social network\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 385\
Bahjat, A.A., Jones, J.\
24723524300;56434888100;\
Deleted file fragment dating by analysis of allocated neighbors\
(2019) Digital Investigation, 28, pp. S60-S67. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85064857028&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2019.01.015&partnerID=40&md5=62ea0f6630b848332ebe3e86bb6c06c4\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2019.01.015\
AFFILIATIONS: George Mason University, Fairfax, VA, United States\
ABSTRACT: Timestamps play a substantial role during digital forensic investigations and address two main objectives. First, they serve as a primary culling criterion to reduce the amount of digital evidence subject to analysis. Second, timestamps are the sole feature that allows reliable reconstruction of time-lines and they assist in locating temporal anomalies. File fragments, typically from previously deleted or relocated content, are often useful, especially when intact files are unavailable. Such fragments rarely contain embedded timestamps or have file-system timestamp information, which renders them less useful. In this work, we investigate and propose a framework for determining a time-window for deleted file fragments that are typically found in un-allocated space and file slack. We hypothesize that using the known temporal state of neighboring clusters allows us to derive a date-and-time range for when the file fragment was first written to media until it was subsequently deleted. \'a9 2019 Ahmed A. Bahjat, Jim Jones\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Deleted file;  Digital evidence;  Digital stratigraphy;  Event reconstruction;  File slack\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 386\
Wang, X., Niu, S., Zhang, J.\
57207046614;7103052211;57196380689;\
Digital image forensics based on CFA interpolation feature and Gaussian mixture model\
(2019) International Journal of Digital Crime and Forensics, 11 (2), pp. 1-12. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85062174728&doi=10.4018%2fIJDCF.2019040101&partnerID=40&md5=b52fc5bcaf7444a5d07295c35aa991ec\
\
DOI: 10.4018/IJDCF.2019040101\
AFFILIATIONS: Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing, China\
ABSTRACT: According to the characteristics of the color filter array interpolation in a camera, an image splicing forgery detection algorithm based on bi-cubic interpolation and Gaussian mixture model is proposed. The authors make the assumption that the image is acquired using a color filter array, and that tampering removes the artifacts due to a demosaicing algorithm. This article extracts the image features based on the variance of the prediction error and create image feature likelihood map to detect and locate the image tampered areas. The experimental results show that the proposed method can detect and locate the splicing tampering areas precisely. Compared with bi-linear interpolation, this method can reduce the prediction error and improve the detection accuracy. Copyright \'a9 2019, IGI Global.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Bi-Cubic Interpolation;  CFA Interpolation;  Gaussian Mixture Model;  Splicing Forgery Detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 387\
Li, B., Zhang, H., Luo, H., Tan, S.\
57102112000;57205390578;57205390752;25960429800;\
Detecting double JPEG compression and its related anti-forensic operations with CNN\
(2019) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 78 (7), pp. 8577-8601. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85059856603&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-018-7073-3&partnerID=40&md5=5d1221ef4a936bbd738c6b1acf39449a\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-018-7073-3\
AFFILIATIONS: Guangdong Key Laboratory of Intelligent Information Processing and Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Media Security, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, China\
ABSTRACT: Detecting double JPEG compression is important to forensic experts in identifying the originality and authenticity of images. However, there are some anti-forensic techniques which can evade existing double compression detectors. It is desirable to design a unified approach to address the issues of JPEG forensics and counter-anti-forensics simultaneously, but existing hand-crafted feature based methods and deep learning based methods may fail to satisfy the requirement. In this paper, we present a data-driven approach by using a convolutional neural network (CNN) which takes input from both raw JPEG DCT coefficients and decompressed image pixels. Expert knowledge about JPEG characteristics is incorporated in the CNN design by exploring the intricate relations both within and among DCT subbands and by looking for spatial artifacts both within and among JPEG grids. The CNN is capable of learning deep representations from training data and thus can effectively detect double JPEG compression and its related anti-forensic operations together. The end-to-end CNN that takes into account the information from both DCT domain and spatial domain, shows outstanding performance when compared to prior arts in the experiments. It shows a promising way to address counter-anti-forensic issues without designing specific features for each anti-forensic operation. \'a9 2019, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Convolutional neural network;  Double JPEG compression;  Image forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
\
ID: 388\
2019 International Conference on Platform Technology and Service, PlatCon 2019 - Proceedings\
(2019) 2019 International Conference on Platform Technology and Service, PlatCon 2019 - Proceedings, 174 p. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85063907129&partnerID=40&md5=524b8968081777f91f96e684fd17ef09\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 33 papers. The topics discussed include: a proposal of iterative consensus process for group decision making; the design of graph-based privacy protection mechanisms for mobile systems; digital forensic artifact collection technique using application decompilation; the impact of PCA-scale improving GRU performance for intrusion detection; semantic analysis of NIH stroke scale using machine learning techniques; interoperable OAuth 2.0 framework; security requirements for cloud-based C4I security architecture; KSI based sensitive data integrity validation method for precision medicine system; and security evaluation methodology for software defined network solutions.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 389\
Wu, X., Han, Q., Niu, X., Zhang, H.\
56683322500;55544494100;7103278179;57204830065;\
Novel similarity measurements for reassembling fragmented image files\
(2019) Chinese Journal of Electronics, 28 (2), pp. 331-337. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85064149947&doi=10.1049%2fcje.2019.01.016&partnerID=40&md5=2f6bc0ad4244f18fe801ced76d12f32c\
\
DOI: 10.1049/cje.2019.01.016\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science and Technology, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin, 150080, China\
ABSTRACT: Reassembling fragmented image files is a useful technique to seize image evidence in digital forensics. A key problem of reassembly is how to measure the similarity between the fragments. Most of the measurements are based on the local similarity of the images. We analyze the impact of similarity patterns on the judgment of the adjacency of the fragments and conclude that the horizontal similarity has little help. According to this conclusion, we improve the median edge detector by replacing the horizontal similarity with the left and right diagonal similarity. Furthermore, we improve the sum of differences and Euclidean distance by replacing the mean/sum used in the two measurements with the median. Experimental results verify the analysis of similarity patterns and the improvements. \'a9 2019 Chinese Institute of Electronics.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  File carving;  Fragmented image file reassembly;  Median;  Similarity measurement\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 390\
Chetry, A., Sharma, U.\
57188859588;56452448500;\
Memory forensics analysis for investigation of online crime - A review\
(2019) Proceedings of the 2019 6th International Conference on Computing for Sustainable Global Development, INDIACom 2019, art. no. 8991425, pp. 40-45. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85080957380&partnerID=40&md5=350e0637b3a01f939665e1729edbb567\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Assam Don Bosco University, Guwahati, India\
ABSTRACT: Advancement of technology not only coercing our society to depend on technology but it also attracting criminals towards this technical world or cyberspace, and also providing the criminals with adequate number of tools and techniques for committing serious crimes as well as to hide their identity or clearing their tracks (criminal activities). Moreover, due to worldwide acceptance of digital forensics for investigation, criminals are constantly using technology which avoids storing any evidences in permanent storage media and deploying their attack through volatile memory. Therefore, memory forensics is accepted as part of incident response procedure for investigation and it is evolving constantly. In this study, we surveyed various memory acquisition tools and techniques giving emphasis on online crimes where live CD/USB, portable browsers, virtualization, The Onion Router (Tor) is involved. This paper also pointed out the various contributions by researcher and academician for the enhancement of memory forensics analysis. The objective was to study the existing growth of the memory forensics framework for investigation of cases involving dark web and anonymous network and find out the existing challenges in investigation of such cases. \'a9 2019 Bharati Vidyapeeth, New Delhi. Copy Right in Bulk will be transferred to IEEE by Bharati Vidyapeeth.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Dark Web;  Live Forensics;  Memory Forensics;  Portable Browser;  RAM Forensics;  Tor Browser;  Volatile Memory Forensics;  Volatility Framework\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 391\
Satriyanto, N., Munir, R., Harlili\
57211253191;35176324300;56204528300;\
Dynamic background video forgery detection using Gaussian mixture model\
(2019) Proceeding - 2019 International Conference of Artificial Intelligence and Information Technology, ICAIIT 2019, art. no. 8834463, pp. 379-383. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85073155042&doi=10.1109%2fICAIIT.2019.8834463&partnerID=40&md5=0025011cfbc8fdc89b0b861618d906d0\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICAIIT.2019.8834463\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electrical Engineering and Informatics, Institut Teknologi Bandung, Bandung, Indonesia\
ABSTRACT: Video as evidence holds an important place in a court case and therefore the integrity of video must be proven. Various studies had been done in video forensics and most of them is only focused on a certain type of forgery, such as histogram correlation analysis that only focused on detecting temporally forged videos with static background. Improving histogram correlation analysis with foreground detection using Gaussian mixture model makes it possible to detect spatially forged videos and further improves its accuracy in detecting dynamic background video. Applying proposed method will yield 20.83% improved detection's accuracy, 34.42% increased localization's precision, and 39.17% increased localization's re-call. Furthermore, object's definition introduced by foreground detection will also open up new possibility to detect spatially forged video. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Correlation;  Forgery;  Gaussian mixture model;  Histogram;  Pixel line\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 392\
Horsman, G.\
55366646200;\
Tool testing and reliability issues in the field of digital forensics\
(2019) Digital Investigation, 28, pp. 163-175. Cited 14 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85063114323&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2019.01.009&partnerID=40&md5=0b5bd3fefdefaf42b2a63518418c8a8d\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2019.01.009\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Science, Engineering & Design, Teesside University, Middlesbrough, North Yorkshire, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: The digital forensic discipline is wholly reliant upon software applications and tools designed and marketed for the acquisition, display and interpretation of digital data. The results of any subsequent investigation using such tools must be reliable and repeatable whilst supporting the establishment of fact, allowing criminal justice proceedings the ability to digest any findings during the process of determining guilt or innocence. Errors present at any stage of an examination can undermine an entire investigation, compromising any potentially evidential results. Despite a clear dependence on digital forensic tools, arguably, the field currently lacks sufficient testing standards and procedures to effectively validate their usage during an investigation. Digital forensics is a discipline which provides decision-makers with a reliable understanding of digital traces on any device under investigation, however, it cannot say with 100% certainty that the tools used to undertake this process produce factually accurate results in all cases. This is an increasing concern given the push for digital forensic organisations to now acquire ISO 17025 accreditation. This article examines the current state of digital forensic tool-testing in 2018 along with the difficulties of sufficiently testing applications for use in this discipline. The results of a practitioner survey are offered, providing an insight into industry consensus surrounding tool-testing and reliability. \'a9 2019 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Error-rate;  Reliability;  Research;  Testing;  Validation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 393\
Horsman, G., Findlay, B., James, T.\
55366646200;57207207094;57207206232;\
Developing a \'91router examination at scene\'92 standard operating procedure for crime scene investigators in the United Kingdom\
(2019) Digital Investigation, 28, pp. 152-162. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85062286942&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2019.01.010&partnerID=40&md5=8b88752b8fd3e192c8686973b94b10e9\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2019.01.010\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Science, Engineering & Design, Teesside University, Middlesbrough, North Yorkshire, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: As the majority of dwellings now maintain some form of Internet connectivity, the examination of routers at crime scenes is an increasing requirement. Due to cost and resourcing constraints, police forces are looking to transfer responsibility for carrying out this task to front line crime scene investigators, despite such staff typically lacking specialist training for this type of examination. Such strategies are potentially high-risk, as the mishandling of home routers can result in the oversight or destruction of potentially evidential information denoting home network usage, configuration and connected devices. This information can support scene examiners with their searching practices, ensuring all connected devices within the vicinity of a scene are accounted for or seized, whilst also supporting further technical investigations. This work documents the forensic examination of Sky, BT, Virgin, EE and TalkTalk routers and analysis of relevant evidence content including records of attached and currently connected devices, and, network configuration settings. A standard operating procedures has been developed and offered, to support crime scene investigation staff carry out router investigations. \'a9 2019 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Crime scene investigation;  Digital forensics;  Investigation;  Policing;  Routers;  Standard operating procedures\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 394\
Arshad, H., Jantan, A., Omolara, E.\
57204201750;24724481600;57206934748;\
Evidence collection and forensics on social networks: Research challenges and directions\
(2019) Digital Investigation, 28, pp. 126-138. Cited 13 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85062152169&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2019.02.001&partnerID=40&md5=eb03c5348ed50bd5c37e331ee796620c\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2019.02.001\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science, Universiti Sains Malaysia, School of Computer SciencePenang  11800, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: Social Media (SM) evidence is a new and rapidly emerging frontier in digital forensics. The trail of digital information on social media, if explored correctly, can offer remarkable support in criminal investigations. However, exploring social media for potential evidence and presenting these proofs in court is not a straightforward task. Social media evidence must be collected by a legally and scientifically appropriate forensic process and also coincide with the privacy rights of individuals. Following the legal process is a challenging task for legal practitioners and investigators due to the highly dynamic and heterogeneous nature of social media. Forensic investigators can conduct effective investigations and collect legally sound evidence efficiently if they are provided with sophisticated tools to manage the diversity and size of social media content. This article explains the current state of evidence acquisition, admissibility, and jurisdiction in social media forensics. It also describes the immediate challenges for the collection, analysis, presentation, and validation of social media evidence in legal proceedings. Furthermore, the research gaps in the domain and few research objectives with potential research directions are presented. \'a9 2019 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Admissibility;  Forensic preservation;  Research Goals;  Social Media as Evidence;  Social Media forensic acquisition\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 395\
Matthews, R., Sorell, M., Falkner, N.\
57205574108;6602563226;14631557200;\
An analysis of optical contributions to a photo-sensor's ballistic fingerprints\
(2019) Digital Investigation, 28, pp. 139-145. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85061827758&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2019.02.002&partnerID=40&md5=9bc25487cc7edbf528599d8a2037666f\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2019.02.002\
AFFILIATIONS: The University of Adelaide, School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Adelaide, SA  5005, Australia; \
The University of Adelaide, School of Computer Science, Adelaide, SA  5005, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Lens aberrations have previously been used to determine the provenance of an image. However, this is not necessarily unique to an image sensor, as lens systems are often interchanged. Photo-response non-uniformity noise was proposed in 2005 by Luk\'e1\'9a Goljan and Fridrich as a stochastic signal which describes a sensor uniquely, akin to a \'93ballistic\'94 fingerprint. This method, however, did not account for additional sources of bias such as lens artefacts and temperature. In this paper, we propose a new additive signal model to account for artefacts previously thought to have been isolated from the ballistic fingerprint. Our proposed model separates sensor level artefacts from the lens optical system and thus accounts for lens aberrations previously thought to be filtered out. Specifically, we apply standard image processing theory, an understanding of frequency properties relating to the physics of light and temperature response of sensor dark current to classify artefacts. This model enables us to isolate and account for bias from the lens optical system and temperature within the current model. \'a9 2019 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Dark current;  Digital image forensics;  Photo response non-uniformity;  Sensor pattern noise\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 396\
Al Mutawa, N., Bryce, J., Franqueira, V.N.L., Marrington, A., Read, J.C.\
42261171200;11039799000;24461774700;13410675800;15760807600;\
Behavioural Digital Forensics Model: Embedding Behavioural Evidence Analysis into the Investigation of Digital Crimes\
(2019) Digital Investigation, 28, pp. 70-82. Cited 11 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85060907760&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.12.003&partnerID=40&md5=1db1045806986456ed46035637a00dde\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.12.003\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Engineering and Physical Sciences, University of Central Lancashire, Preston, United Kingdom; \
General Department of Forensic Sciences and Criminology, Dubai Police G.H.Q., Dubai, United Arab Emirates; \
School of Psychology, University of Central Lancashire, Preston, United Kingdom; \
College of Engineering and Technology, University of Derby, Derby, United Kingdom; \
College of Technological Innovation, Zayed University, Dubai, United Arab Emirates\
ABSTRACT: The state-of-the-art and practice show an increased recognition, but limited adoption, of Behavioural Evidence Analysis (BEA) within the Digital Forensics (DF) investigation process. Yet, there is currently no BEA-driven process model and guidelines for DF investigators to follow in order to take advantage of such an approach. This paper proposes the Behavioural Digital Forensics Model to fill this gap. It takes a multidisciplinary approach which incorporates BEA into in-lab investigation of seized devices related to interpersonal cases (i.e., digital crimes involving human interactions between offender(s) and victim(s)). The model was designed based on the application of traditional BEA phases to 35 real cases, and evaluated using 5 real digital crime cases - all from Dubai Police archive. This paper, however, provides details of only one case from this evaluation pool. Compared to the outcome of these cases using a traditional DF investigation process, the new model showed a number of benefits. It allowed a more effective focusing of the investigation, and provided logical directions for identifying the location of further relevant evidence. It also enabled a better understanding and interpretation of victim/offender behaviours (e.g., probable offenders\'92 motivations and modus operandi), which facilitated a more in depth understanding of the dynamics of the specific crime. Finally, in some cases, it enabled the identification of suspect's collaborators, something which was not identified via the traditional investigative process. \'a9 2018 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Behavioural digital forensics model;  Behavioural Evidence Analysis;  Digital evidence interpretation;  Digital forensics investigation;  Reconstruction of digital crime\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 397\
Raj, A., Sankar, D.\
57224554825;56405299400;\
Counter Forensics: A New PRNU Based Method for Image Source Anonymization\
(2019) Proceedings of 2019 3rd IEEE International Conference on Electrical, Computer and Communication Technologies, ICECCT 2019, art. no. 8868948, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85074353028&doi=10.1109%2fICECCT.2019.8868948&partnerID=40&md5=c2ca88e799c6bd4a928aa673b54ff392\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICECCT.2019.8868948\
AFFILIATIONS: Division of Electronics Engg, SOE, Cochin University of Science and Technology, Cochin, India\
ABSTRACT: Digital Image Forensics deals with the authenticity or originality and/or the detection of image forgery. Even though there are different forensic techniques for the analysis of digital images, hackers are advancing their methods to manipulate images. There arises the need of counter forensic techniques to resist the robust attacks. The Photo Response Non Uniformity (PRNU) of the source camera can be considered as the unique identity of the device, just like the fingerprint of a human being. This paper introduces a new counter forensic method to anonymize the identity of the image from attackers. The PRNU (fingerprint) of the image is removed and the variance of the PRNU of another camera is introduced to anonymize the identity. Also the image quality of the forged image is analyzed using Image Quality Metrics (IQM) and PSNR (Peak Signal to Noise Ratio) values. The results show that even after source anonymization, the image has better visual quality with average Mean Absolute Error (MAE) and Mean Square Error (MSE) values of 0.1278 and 0.1111 respectively. The noise residual of the forged image is correlated with the PRNU of the original acquisition device, and verified that they are uncorrelated as the values ranging from -0.0025 to 0.0117. This indicates that the identity of the image is forged or the forged image has little traces of the original acquisition device. The method was tested with images of the same scene captured by five different cameras. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Counter Forensics;  Digital Image Forensics;  Image Quality Metrics;  PRNU\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 398\
Iuliani, M., Fontani, M., Shullani, D., Piva, A.\
56685528500;56490515900;57126389800;7005293392;\
Hybrid reference-based video source identification\
(2019) Sensors (Switzerland), 19 (3), art. no. 649, . Cited 22 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85061573146&doi=10.3390%2fs19030649&partnerID=40&md5=d3d0c86f15e4ee268d8d15ca9f3d445c\
\
DOI: 10.3390/s19030649\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Engineering, University of Florence, Florence, 50139, Italy; \
FORLAB\'97Multimedia Forensics Laboratory, PIN Scrl, Prato, 59100, Italy; \
Amped Software, Loc. Padriciano 99, Trieste, 34149, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Millions of users share images and videos generated by mobile devices with different profiles on social media platforms. When publishing illegal content, they prefer to use anonymous profiles. Multimedia Forensics allows us to determine whether videos or images have been captured with the same device, and thus, possibly, by the same person. Currently, the most promising technology to achieve this task exploits unique traces left by the camera sensor into the visual content. However, image and video source identification are still treated separately from one another. This approach is limited and anachronistic, if we consider that most of the visual media are today acquired using smartphones that capture both images and videos. In this paper we overcome this limitation by exploring a new approach that synergistically exploits images and videos to study the device from which they both come. Indeed, we prove it is possible to identify the source of a digital video by exploiting a reference sensor pattern noise generated from still images taken by the same device. The proposed method provides performance comparable with or even better than the state-of-the-art, where a reference pattern is estimated from video frames. Finally, we show that this strategy is effective even in the case of in-camera digitally stabilized videos, where a non-stabilized reference is not available, thus solving the limitations of the current state-of-the-art. We also show how this approach allows us to link social media profiles containing images and videos captured by the same sensor. \'a9 2019 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Image forensics;  Sensor pattern noise;  Smartphone;  Social media;  Video database;  Video forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 399\
Shan, W., Yi, Y., Huang, R., Xie, Y.\
55440909100;12762900200;56856326800;55710289000;\
Robust contrast enhancement forensics based on convolutional neural networks\
(2019) Signal Processing: Image Communication, 71, pp. 138-146. Cited 17 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85058042797&doi=10.1016%2fj.image.2018.11.011&partnerID=40&md5=1fdfb6e24875638dd2b0c3bbab4b1225\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.image.2018.11.011\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Printing and Packaging, Wuhan University, Wuhan, 430079, China; \
State Key Laboratory of Geodesy and Earth's Dynamics, Institute of Geodesy and Geophysics of CAS, Wuhan, 430077, China; \
School of Packaging and Material Engineering, Hunan University of Technology, Zhuzhou, 412008, China\
ABSTRACT: Contrast enhancement (CE) is frequently applied to conceal traces of forgery and therefore can provide indirect forensic evidence of tampering when investigating composite images. The performance of existing CE forensic methods however, suffers fatal degradation when detecting enhanced images stored in the JPEG format. In this paper, we propose a new JPEG-robust CE forensic method based on a modified convolutional neural network (CNN). Unlike traditional CNNs, the first layer of our CNN architecture accepts a potentially enhanced image as the input and outputs its Gray-Level Co-occurrence Matrix (GLCM), which contains CE fingerprints; termed a GLCM layer. A cropping layer is used for noise reduction in GLCMs. In addition, the output of the cropping layer becomes input when extracting multiple features for further classification using a tailor-made CNN, which significantly extracts residual CE features under JPEG compression. Extensive experimental results show that the proposed method achieves significant improvements in both global and local CE detection. \'a9 2018\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Composite image;  Contrast enhancement;  Convolutional neural networks;  JPEG compression;  Robust forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 340\
Bonettini, N., Bondi, L., Bestagini, P., Tubaro, S.\
57195676788;56928095700;21638596100;7003411765;\
JPEG implementation forensics based on eigen-algorithms\
(2019) 10th IEEE International Workshop on Information Forensics and Security, WIFS 2018, art. no. 8630765, . Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85062852404&doi=10.1109%2fWIFS.2018.8630765&partnerID=40&md5=7ebbd46ae12bf93691b0c2d3a2e44877\
\
DOI: 10.1109/WIFS.2018.8630765\
AFFILIATIONS: Dipartimento di Elettronica, Informazione e Bioingegneria, Politecnico di Milano, Piazza Leonardo da Vinci 32, Milano, 20133, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Due to the widespread diffusion of JPEG compression standard, image forensic researchers have developed a series of techniques to reverse engineer specific JPEG-based information (e.g., the used quantization matrix, presence of double JPEG compression, JPEG grid alignment, etc.). In this paper, we focus on the detection of traces left on images by the use of different JPEG implementations (e.g., characteristic of proprietary software suites). Specifically, given a JPEG image under analysis, we propose a compact descriptor that enables to distinguish which JPEG implementation has been used. This is done considering the challenging scenario in which the same quantization matrix is used. Results show that it is possible to distinguish between two popular JPEG implementations, as well as to adapt the proposed methodology to additional JPEG-based forensic problems. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 341\
Sahu, S., Okade, M.\
57192423582;55002834400;\
Exposing image resizing utilizing welch power spectral density analysis for double compressed JPEG images\
(2019) 10th IEEE International Workshop on Information Forensics and Security, WIFS 2018, art. no. 8630784, . Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85062819231&doi=10.1109%2fWIFS.2018.8630784&partnerID=40&md5=85e42fbb3b6f19ca90a11c758fa4e1c5\
\
DOI: 10.1109/WIFS.2018.8630784\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, National Institute of Technology Rourkela, Rourkela, India\
ABSTRACT: This paper addresses the problem of forensic analysis of recompressed images in the presence of image resizing, particularly the estimation of the resizing factor by which the image underwent resizing. The proposed method analyzes the Welch power spectral density for presence of peaks introduced by double JPEG artefacts in-order to arrive at the correct resizing factor. The correct resizing factor estimation serves as an important forensic clue since it provides vital information on the life history of the image. Experimental validation carried out utilizing several double compressed JPEG images taken from heterogeneous datasets along with comparative analysis with an existing method shows superior performance for the proposed method. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 342\
Li, S., Sun, Q., Xu, X.\
24366415400;7402036692;57211363876;\
Forensic Analysis of Digital Images over Smart Devices and Online Social Networks\
(2019) Proceedings - 20th International Conference on High Performance Computing and Communications, 16th International Conference on Smart City and 4th International Conference on Data Science and Systems, HPCC/SmartCity/DSS 2018, art. no. 8622906, pp. 1015-1021. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85062501701&doi=10.1109%2fHPCC%2fSmartCity%2fDSS.2018.00168&partnerID=40&md5=4347d16521bc7214b5a831f8e63df349\
\
DOI: 10.1109/HPCC/SmartCity/DSS.2018.00168\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Creative Technology, University of the West of England, Bristol, United Kingdom; \
School of Computer Science and Engineering, Xi'An University of Technology, Xi'an, 710049, China; \
Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Big Data Security and Intelligent Processing, Nanjing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Nanjing, China\
ABSTRACT: Smart mobile devices are increasingly penetrating into every day activities and becoming the key platform for accessing personal and business information. Together with the social networks and the Internet of Things (IoT), smart mobile devices are changing the way we live and communicate. In digital forensics, mobile devices and social networks have becoming essential tools in digital forensic investigation. Both the mobile devices and social networks have also become important sources of essential evidences. In this work, we introduce a mobile forensics analysis framework to identify the user and source mobile phone camera with images taken by this camera using it's sensor patter noise. We further show how to easily make connections between the real user with their account in social networks via the mobile phone camera fingerprint (MCF). The proposed method can bridge the isolated mobile forensic and digital forensic methods together. The experiment results demonstrate the feasibility of our approach. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Camera fingerprints;  Digital and multimedia forensics;  Forensics images;  Mobile phone;  Social network forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 343\
Islam, M.M., Karmakar, G., Kamruzzaman, J., Murshed, M., Kahandawa, G., Parvin, N.\
57211861967;6701317101;6602151152;6604064650;55272488000;57202222855;\
Detecting Splicing and Copy-Move Attacks in Color Images\
(2019) 2018 International Conference on Digital Image Computing: Techniques and Applications, DICTA 2018, art. no. 8615874, . Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85062230858&doi=10.1109%2fDICTA.2018.8615874&partnerID=40&md5=15e124ae4825159854d411d6b24d08a5\
\
DOI: 10.1109/DICTA.2018.8615874\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Science, Engineering and Information Technology, Federation University Australia, Melbourne, Australia; \
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Stamford University Bangladesh, Dhaka, Bangladesh\
ABSTRACT: Image sensors are generating limitless digital images every day. Image forgery like splicing and copy-move are very common type of attacks that are easy to execute using sophisticated photo editing tools. As a result, digital forensics has attracted much attention to identify such tampering on digital images. In this paper, a passive (blind) image tampering identification method based on Discrete Cosine Transformation (DCT) and Local Binary Pattern (LBP) has been proposed. First, the chroma components of an image is divided into fixed sized non-overlapping blocks and 2D block DCT is applied to identify the changes due to forgery in local frequency distribution of the image. Then a texture descriptor, LBP is applied on the magnitude component of the 2D-DCT array to enhance the artifacts introduced by the tampering operation. The resulting LBP image is again divided into non-overlapping blocks. Finally, summations of corresponding inter-cell values of all the LBP blocks are computed and arranged as a feature vector. These features are fed into a Support Vector Machine (SVM) with Radial Basis Function (RBF) as kernel to distinguish forged images from authentic ones. The proposed method has been experimented extensively on three publicly available well-known image splicing and copy-move detection benchmark datasets of color images. Results demonstrate the superiority of the proposed method over recently proposed state-of-the-art approaches in terms of well accepted performance metrics such as accuracy, area under ROC curve and others. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: chroma components;  copy-move attack;  Digital forensics;  Discrete Cosine Transformation;  Local Binary Pattern;  splicing attack;  Support Vector Machine\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 344\
Kao, D.-Y., Lai, C.-J., Su, C.-W.\
14037349500;57207105987;36172793500;\
A Framework for SQL Injection Investigations: Detection, Investigation, and Forensics\
(2019) Proceedings - 2018 IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, SMC 2018, art. no. 8616479, pp. 2838-2843. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85062209532&doi=10.1109%2fSMC.2018.00483&partnerID=40&md5=2e4e774e2f43c55b6e3cca8520730518\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SMC.2018.00483\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Information Management, Central Police University, Taoyuan, Taiwan; \
Management of Technology, Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu, Taiwan\
ABSTRACT: Web applications provide information for various private organizations and public sectors. The flaws in web-based application and database can also be utilized for malicious SQL statements. Aggressors often exploit SQL injection (SQLi) flaws during an input validation of web applications to infect database servers and launch cyber-attacks. SQLi attacks derive from the execution of an untrusted input and make the program execute unintended codes with administrative privileges. Website administrators should mitigate SQLi vulnerabilities and LEAs should find a better way to collect relevant evidence. This paper proposes a framework of SQLi Investigation Architecture (SIA) and proves its feasibility in fighting against of SQLi attacks. An effective and efficient approach is also proposed to prosecute SQLi aggressors and keep them away from abusing the database. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cybercrime Investigation;  Digital Forensics;  SQL Injection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 345\
Newman, J., Lin, L., Chen, W., Reinders, S., Wang, Y., Wu, M., Guan, Y.\
57203784170;57207817653;57203926608;57203784036;57203928038;55264847200;35248121200;\
StegoAppDB: A steganography apps forensics image database\
(2019) IS and T International Symposium on Electronic Imaging Science and Technology, 2019 (5), art. no. 536, . Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85080903967&doi=10.2352%2fISSN.2470-1173.2019.5.MWSF-536&partnerID=40&md5=3897a118e59d4a833728f6b76fa6c410\
\
DOI: 10.2352/ISSN.2470-1173.2019.5.MWSF-536\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Mathematics, Iowa State University, Ames, IA, United States; \
Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering, Iowa State University, Ames, IA, United States; \
Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering, University of Washington Bothell, Bothell, WA, United States; \
Department of Electrical & Computer, University of Maryland, College Park, MD, United States\
ABSTRACT: In this paper, we present a new reference dataset simulating digital evidence for image (photographic) steganography. Steganography detection is a digital image forensic topic that is relatively unknown in practical forensics, although stego app use in the wild is on the rise. This paper introduces the first database consisting of mobile phone photographs and stego images produced from mobile stego apps, including a rich set of side information, offering simulated digital evidence. StegoAppDB, a steganography apps forensics image database, contains over 810, 000 innocent and stego images using a minimum of 10 different phone models from 24 distinct devices, with detailed provenanced data comprising a wide range of ISO and exposure settings, EXIF data, message information, embedding rates, etc. We develop a camera app, Cameraw, specifically for data acquisition, with multiple images per scene, saving simultaneously in both DNG and high-quality JPEG formats. Stego images are created from these original images using selected mobile stego apps through a careful process of reverse engineering. StegoAppDB contains cover-stego image pairs including for apps that resize the stego dimensions. We retain the original devices and continue to enlarge the database, and encourage the image forensics community to use StegoAppDB. While designed for steganography, we discuss uses of this publicly available database to other digital image forensic topics. \'a9 2019, Society for Imaging Science and Technology.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 346\
Dimpe, P.M., Kogeda, O.P.\
57204238586;15061410000;\
A Model for Evaluating Digital Forensic Tools\
(2019) ARPN Journal of Engineering and Applied Sciences, 14 (19), pp. 7048-7058. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85109161200&doi=10.36478%2fJEASCI.2019.7048.7058&partnerID=40&md5=aed406d5ac22a031558a616c79879252\
\
DOI: 10.36478/JEASCI.2019.7048.7058\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Technology, Tshwane University of Technology, Pretoria, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: Digital Forensic Investigators (DFIs) rely on tools to assess, gather and analyze digital evidence. They are used to unravel criminal acts and prove crime in a court of law. However, most of these tools are used without being evaluated because tool evaluation is expensive and time consuming. In addition, most DFIs assume that a tool would do exactly what the vendor claims it would do. If a tool is not evaluated, it remains unknown whether the results it produces are reliable or not. Unreliable results may jeopardize the whole forensic investigation process and in some cases lead to improper civil judgements resulting in criminals walking free thereby being encouraged to commit the same crime again. This may also lead to time wasting, trial and error, loss of money etc. Therefore, in this study, we designed and implemented a model for evaluating digital forensics tools to help DFIs with evaluating the tools that they would want to use. We used data from the Computer Forensic Tool Testing (CFTT) project which we aggregated and classified using Bayesian networks. We implemented our model using Java programming language and MySQL database. We tested using the data from the CFTT project in conjunction with the feedback provided by DFIs to recommend a suitable tool to use for investigations based on the task a DFI wants to perform, the category of the tool and its cost. The model attained a utility performance of 91.7%. \'a9 Medwell Journals, 2019\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Bayesian networks;  criminals;  cybercrime;  digital forensic investigators;  Digital forensics;  evaluation;  evidence;  MySQL;  tools\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 347\
Al-Sharif, Z.A., Al-Saleh, M.I., Jararweh, Y., Alawneh, L., Shatnawi, A.S.\
15057659200;36808911000;25825095600;16174199300;57195963018;\
The effects of platforms and languages on the memory footprint of the executable program: A memory forensic approach\
(2019) Journal of Universal Computer Science, 25 (9), pp. 1174-1198. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85084610638&doi=10.3217%2fjucs-025-09-1174&partnerID=40&md5=64d4eb5b01dd33ae782dae6f26d0ae77\
\
DOI: 10.3217/jucs-025-09-1174\
AFFILIATIONS: Jordan University of Science and Technology, Irbid, 22110, Jordan\
ABSTRACT: Identifying the software used in a cybercrime can play a key role in estab-lishing the evidence against the perpetrator in the court of law. This can be achieved by various means, one of which is to utilize the RAM contents. RAM comprises vi-tal information about the current state of a system, including its running processes. Accordingly, the memory footprint of a process can be used as evidence about its us-age. However, this evidence can be influenced by several factors. This paper evaluates three of these factors. First, it evaluates how the used programming language affects the evidence. Second, it evaluates how the used platform affects the evidence. Finally, it evaluates how the search for this evidence is influenced by the implicitly used encoding scheme. Our results should assist the investigator in its quest to identify the best amount of evidences about the used software based on its execution logic, host platform, language used, and the encoding of its string values. Results show that the amount of digital evidence is highly affected by these factors. For instance, the memory footprint of a Java based software is often more traceable than the footprints of languages such as C++ and C#. Moreover, the memory footprint of a C# program is more visible on Linux than it is on Windows or Mac OS. Hence, often software related values are successfully identified in RAM memory dumps even after the program is stopped. \'a9 2019, IICM. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Forensics;  H.3.7;  H.5.4;  Memory Forensics;  RAM Dumps Category: H.2;  Runtime Behavior\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 348\
Yu, L., Zhang, Y., Han, H., Zhang, L., Wu, F.\
57213269815;57192964261;56804175200;55709167500;56202067500;\
Robust Median Filtering Forensics by CNN-Based Multiple Residuals Learning\
(2019) IEEE Access, 7, art. no. 8786238, pp. 120594-120602. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85079743434&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2019.2932810&partnerID=40&md5=fae5747412b1fe6e0e1a74dba6e93fcc\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2932810\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electronic and Electrical Engineering, Shanghai University of Engineering Science, Shanghai, 201620, China; \
Shanghai Key Laboratory of Integrated Administration Technologies for Information Security, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China\
ABSTRACT: Median filtering (MF), a non-linear smoothing operation, has often been utilized as a means of image denoising to protect image edges and hide the traces of image tampering. Although the existing MF forensics methods have achieved excellent performance without post-processing, there is still a challenge of detecting MF in small image size and JPEG compression scenario. To meet this challenge, a robust MF forensic method using convolutional-neural-network (CNN)-based multiple residuals learning is proposed in this paper. Firstly, to reveal the traces left by MF, we use multiple high-pass filters to initialize the weights of the pre-processing layer, and obtain discriminative residuals to characterize MF artifacts in various aspects. Then the output of the pre-processing layer is employed as the input of CNN, which is elaborately designed to extract rich hierarchical features for further classification. Furthermore, Batch Normalization (BN) is introduced as a regularization method to help accelerate convergence of the entire network. The extensive experimental results on the composite database demonstrate that the proposed method is superior to the state-of-the-art methods when detecting MF in both JPEG compressed and small size images. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: batch normalization;  convolutional neural network;  Median filtering;  multiple residuals learning;  robust forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 349\
Pourvahab, M., Ekbatanifard, G.\
57214235740;36179492500;\
Digital Forensics Architecture for Evidence Collection and Provenance Preservation in IaaS Cloud Environment Using SDN and Blockchain Technology\
(2019) IEEE Access, 7, art. no. 8865056, pp. 153349-153364. Cited 11 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85078461497&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2019.2946978&partnerID=40&md5=0440226841c17c4f6e405f12968d4b4b\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2946978\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Engineering, Islamic Azad University, Rasht Branch, Rasht, Iran\
ABSTRACT: Cloud forensics is an intelligent evolution of digital forensics that defends against cyber-crimes. However, centralized evidence collection and preservation minimizes the reliability of digital evidence. To resolve this severe problem, this paper proposes a novel digital forensic architecture using fast-growing Software-Defined Networking (SDN) and Blockchain technology for Infrastructure-As-A-Service (IaaS) cloud. In this proposed forensic architecture, the evidence is collected and preserved in the blockchain that is distributed among multiple peers. To protect the system from unauthorized users, Secure Ring Verification based Authentication (SRVA) scheme is proposed. To strengthen the cloud environment, secret keys are generated optimally by using Harmony Search Optimization (HSO) algorithm. All data are encrypted based on the sensitivity level and stored in the cloud server. For encryption, Sensitivity Aware Deep Elliptic Curve Cryptography (SA-DECC) algorithm is presented. For every data stored in the cloud, a block is created in the SDN controller and the history of data is recorded as metadata. In each block, the Merkle hash tree is built by using Secure Hashing Algorithm-3 (SHA-3). Our system allows users to trace their data by deploying Fuzzy based Smart Contracts (FCS). Finally, evidence analysis is enabled by constructing Logical Graph of Evidence (LGoE) collected from the blockchain. Experiments are conducted in an integrated environment of Java (for cloud and blockchain) and network simulator-3.26 (for SDN). The extensive analysis shows that proposed forensic architecture shows promising results in Response time, Evidence insertion time, Evidence verification time, Communication overhead, Hash computation time, Key generation time, Encryption time, Decryption time and total change rate. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: blockchain;  cloud forensics;  evidence collection;  security;  Software-defined networking\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 350\
Reeva, P., Siddhesh, D., Preet, G., Pratik, S., Jain, N.\
57215112065;57215130801;57215130998;57215113989;56572038700;\
Digital Forensics Capability Analyzer: A tool to check forensic capability\
(2019) 2019 International Conference on Nascent Technologies in Engineering, ICNTE 2019 - Proceedings, art. no. 8945960, . Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85078116847&doi=10.1109%2fICNTE44896.2019.8945960&partnerID=40&md5=78b5e35b1a89e0a7078b90466297ffe4\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICNTE44896.2019.8945960\
AFFILIATIONS: Shah and Anchor Kutchhi Engineering College, Dept. of IT, Mumbai, India\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics is process of identifying, preserving, analyzing and preserving digital evidence. Due to increasing cybercrimes now a days, it is important for all organizations to have a well-managed digital forensics cell. So to overcome this, we propose a framework called digital forensics capability analyser. [1]The main advantage of developing digital analyzer is cost minimization. This tool will provide fundamental information for setting up a digital forensic cell and will also offer services like online sessions.[2] [3]It will help organizations by providing them with a perfect solution according to their requirements to start a digital forensic cell in their respective lnstitution.[4] [5] \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: analyzer;  cybercrimes;  Digital forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 351\
Jeong, D., Lee, S.\
56585345100;36063408400;\
High-Speed Searching Target Data Traces Based on Statistical Sampling for Digital Forensics\
(2019) IEEE Access, 7, art. no. 8917643, pp. 172264-172276. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85078030300&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2019.2956681&partnerID=40&md5=9a5b9bb753e3234040366d56f9256d9f\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2956681\
AFFILIATIONS: Digital Forensics Research Center, Korea University, Seoul, 02841, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: As technology of manufacturing storage medium advances, data storage capacity has been increasing exponentially. This pervasiveness has made a forensic examination time-consuming and difficult. If a file system of data storage remains intact, an examiner can find files that would be important evidence by analyzing hierarchy, name, time information, etc. of files and folders. However, as anti-forensic techniques such as metadata destruction and disk format are widely known, the data search based on the file system becomes more impractical. Besides, significant evidences could be stored in the unallocated area; investigating the entire area of data storage is still important. The famous methods of exploring the existence of evidence are hash comparison and random sampling. The hash comparison that calculates hash for all sectors and compares them can detect all fragments of the evidence. However, it requires an enormous amount of time and computing resources. Whereas the random sampling takes much less time as it exploits a portion of data storage, but it involves the risk of false-negative; this fact is critical to forensic examiners. In this paper, we blend the merits of both methods to make false-negative zero and to reduce the processing time extremely at the same time. We use 16-byte values in a sector instead of traditional hash to filter out the unmatched sector. The values are statistically selected based on the frequency of occurrence according to offset. The effectiveness of our methodology is evaluated through several experiments. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: computer crime;  data acquisition;  Forensics;  security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 352\
Orozco, A.L.S., Huaman, C.Q., Quintero, J.A.C., Villalba, L.J.G.\
57195496087;57213834838;57213830600;57192440178;\
Digital Video Source Acquisition Forgery Technique Based on Pattern Sensor Noise Extraction\
(2019) IEEE Access, 7, art. no. 8884202, pp. 157363-157373. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85077975328&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2019.2949839&partnerID=40&md5=f45381bf07296533c86afc65012575f2\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2949839\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Software Engineering and Artificial Intelligence (DISIA), Faculty of Computer Science and Engineering, Group of Analysis, Security and Systems (GASS), Universidad Complutense de Madrid (UCM), Madrid, 28040, Spain\
ABSTRACT: Digital camera of a smartphone is a component frequently used by people to capture a large number of videos, which can illustrate situations that compromise their presumption of innocence in court cases. Usually, these videos circulate on the Internet, prone to intentional manipulation to prosecute one person or exempt another. In this sense, digital videos are a matter of great importance for forensic science, because they can be useful to verify the authenticity of such evidence in judicial processes, helping to make sound decisions. However, it is possible that criminals or attackers know weaknesses of forensic techniques and use anti-forensic techniques to manipulate videos without leaving any trace of the procedure performed. Forensic science confronts anti-forensic techniques, analyzes them rigorously and applies anti-measures in the development of techniques to detect anti-forensic operations. In this paper, anti-forensic techniques are proposed to perform the source anonymization and forgery in MP4 videos. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensic analysis;  digital video;  forensic analysis;  PRNU;  sensor noise;  source identification;  video anonymization;  video forgery;  video metadata;  wavelet transform\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 353\
Li, X., Yan, D., Dong, L., Wang, R.\
57214904812;24825818400;55946301100;7405340909;\
Anti-Forensics of Audio Source Identification Using Generative Adversarial Network\
(2019) IEEE Access, 7, art. no. 8933418, pp. 184332-184339. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85077800186&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2019.2960097&partnerID=40&md5=2b6626de3fdb47e36aa9e130aa95911f\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2960097\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Information Science and Engieering, Ningbo University, Zhejiang, China; \
Guangdong Key Lab. of Intelligent Info. Processing and Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Media Security, Shenzhen, 518060, China\
ABSTRACT: Digital audio recording is the main evidence used in the field of judicial forensics. Recently, a number of digital audio forensic techniques have been developed and the audio source identification (ASI) is one of the most active research topics. Most of existing ASI works mainly focus on improving the performance of detection accuracy and robustness. Little consideration has been given to ASI anti-forensics, which aims at attacking the forensic techniques. To expose the weaknesses of these source identification methods, we propose an anti-forensic framework based on generative adversarial network (GAN) to falsify the source information of an audio by adding specific disturbance. The experimental results show that the falsified audio can deceive the forensic methods effectively, and can even control their conclusions. Three state-of-art ASI methods have been evaluated as the attacking targets. For the confusing attack, the proposed method can significantly reduce their detection accuracies from about 97% to less than 5%. For the misleading attack, a misleading rate about 81.32% has been achieved while ensuring the perceptual quality of the anti-forensic audio. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: anti-forensics;  audio source identification;  Generative adversarial network\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 354\
Kiyomoto, S., Nakano, Y., Waseda, A., Nakamura, T., Ishizaka, M., Kobayashi, Y.\
6506842514;36782578000;57197634920;56012649400;57203997735;36721274300;\
A Framework for Secure and Trustworthy Data Management in Supply Chain\
(2019) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 11673 LNCS, pp. 148-159. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85077133321&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-27192-3_12&partnerID=40&md5=050b52e0ed6134e4dbb0ac1e0b927773\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-27192-3_12\
AFFILIATIONS: KDDI Research Inc., Fujimino, Saitama  356-8502, Japan; \
Advanced Telecommunications Research Institute International, Sorakugun, Kyoto, 619-0288, Japan\
ABSTRACT: In this paper, we consider a trustworthy framework for data management in a supply chain. The framework provides verifiable evidence for secure data management in each organization involved in a supply chain. It consists of three main components: black box systems that securely store digital evidence, verification services that verify the digital evidence and publish a guarantee document for data management, and a trusted directory service that manages the guarantee document. Furthermore, future directions for research are discussed in this paper. We believe the framework will improve security and trustworthiness of supply chains. \'a9 2019, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyber-physical system;  Data management;  Digital evidence;  Security;  Supply chain;  Trustworthiness\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 355\
Bhaduri Mandal, A., Das, T.K.\
57212507979;7201461588;\
Anti-forensics of a NAD-JPEG Detection Scheme Using Estimation of DC Coefficients\
(2019) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 11952 LNCS, pp. 307-323. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85076882815&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-36945-3_17&partnerID=40&md5=7a98462235360f4e868a67160bbe21a5\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-36945-3_17\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Applications, National Institute of Technology, Raipur, G.E. Road, Raipur, Chhattisgarh  492010, India\
ABSTRACT: Bianchi et al. proposed a method to detect the non-aligned double JPEG (NAD-JPEG) compression using the presence of distortions in the Integer Periodicity Map (IPM) of DC coefficients of any JPEG image. However, we found that the IPM can be easily altered without affecting the visual quality of an image. In this paper, we propose a new anti-forensics scheme that alters the IPM to deceive the Bianchi et al. scheme. In our proposed method, a statistical model of the DC coefficients from singly compressed JPEG image is used to generate an estimated image which is free from quantization artifacts that are present in the IPM. The estimated image is subjected to NAD-JPEG compression. It was found that the DC values of NAD-JPEG image are no longer be the multiples of the corresponding primary quantization step size q1. As a result, the DCT coefficients do not cluster around the lattice related to the q1 and the IPM of the double JPEG compressed image seems to be the IPM of a singly compressed JPEG image. Experimental results show the effectiveness of the proposed anti-forensics scheme as the accuracy of the said forensics method get reduced to less than 50% in case of anti-forensically modified images. \'a9 2019, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Approximation of DC coefficients;  Double JPEG compression detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 356\
Karabiyik, U., Mousas, C., Sirota, D., Iwai, T., Akdere, M.\
56493051000;55481721000;57212200182;57212200587;56150131000;\
A Virtual Reality Framework for Training Incident First Responders and Digital Forensic Investigators\
(2019) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 11845 LNCS, pp. 469-480. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85076154555&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-33723-0_38&partnerID=40&md5=e5d6b0bda3aebf9f7570916a93a566c7\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-33723-0_38\
AFFILIATIONS: Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN  47907, United States\
ABSTRACT: This paper presents the basic functionalities of a virtual reality framework developed for training first responders and digital forensic investigators. The framework is divided into two modules: training and evaluation. The framework provides a variety of functionalities and behaviors that can be assigned to virtual objects and allows training and evaluation of crime scenes to be easily customized. During the training module, an individual can be trained to perform various procedures, pipelines, and task execution sequences. After the training is completed, the individual can then be immersed in and interact with a virtual reality crime scene by collecting as much evidence as possible. This process allows the system to evaluate the trainee\'92s performance and the training process in general. In the evaluation process, the developed framework captures several types of information regarding the individual\'92s performance, including missing evidence, the task execution sequence, and the task completion time. The collected data can then be provided to the trainee or supervisor for evaluation. A simple customizable scoring method was also developed and incorporated into the developed framework to provide immediate performance feedback to the trainee. \'a9 2019, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  First responders;  Task evaluation;  Training;  Virtual reality\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 357\
Wang, X., Wang, H., Niu, S.\
57207046614;57196432226;7103052211;\
An image forensic method for AI inpainting using faster R-CNN\
(2019) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 11634 LNCS, pp. 476-487. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85073908945&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-24271-8_43&partnerID=40&md5=df7d524ce7a8188b8f6a47bf33dfe3b1\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-24271-8_43\
AFFILIATIONS: Beijing Key Lab of Intelligent Telecommunication Software and Multimedia, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing, China\
ABSTRACT: With the introduction of AI technology in the field of image inpainting, it makes up for the shortcomings of traditional inpainting methods. Since this technology can achieve object removal without obvious traces by learning visual semantics informations and performs better in complex environment, it brings great challenges to the existing image forensics work. So far, there are few detection methods for AI image inpainting forgery. In order to fill the gap in this field, this paper proposes a deep learning-based detection method. Considering Faster R-CNN model has demonstrated good performance on detecting semantic objects over a range of scales, we migrate it to the forensic field for image inpainting forgery. It turns out that Faster R-CNN model can capture inconsistencies features between the inpainted region and the authentic region. Therefore, this can further enrich the application range of digital image forensics algorithms. We construct a large-scale AI image inpainting dataset based on ImageNet dataset. The experimental results on this dataset demonstrate that our proposed approach achieves good performance. \'a9 Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2019.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: AI image inpainting;  Faster R-CNN;  Image forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 358\
Thajeel, S.A., Mahmood, A.S., Humood, W.R., Sulong, G.\
57220080366;57193959864;57211386545;6505595829;\
Detection copy-move forgery in image via quaternion polar harmonic transforms\
(2019) KSII Transactions on Internet and Information Systems, 13 (8), pp. 4005-4025. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85073753895&doi=10.3837%2ftiis.2019.08.010&partnerID=40&md5=bc10d1dc588933dfbff7cd7156c04272\
\
DOI: 10.3837/tiis.2019.08.010\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Science Department, College of Education, Mustansiriyah University, Baghdad, Iraq; \
Universiti Malaysia Terengganu, Kuala Terengganu, 21030, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: Copy-move forgery (CMF) in digital images is a detrimental tampering of artefacts that requires precise detection and analysis. CMF is performed by copying and pasting a part of an image into other portions of it. Despite several efforts to detect CMF, accurate identification of noise, blur and rotated region-mediated forged image areas is still difficult. A novel algorithm is developed on the basis of quaternion polar complex exponential transform (QPCET) to detect CMF and is conducted involving a few steps. Firstly, the suspicious image is divided into overlapping blocks. Secondly, invariant features for each block are extracted using QPCET. Thirdly, the duplicated image blocks are determined using k-dimensional tree (kd-tree) block matching. Lastly, a new technique is introduced to reduce the flat region-mediated false matches. Experiments are performed on numerous images selected from the CoMoFoD database. MATLAB 2017b is used to employ the proposed method. Metrics such as correct and false detection ratios are utilised to evaluate the performance of the proposed CMF detection method. Experimental results demonstrate the precise and efficient CMF detection capacity of the proposed approach even under image distortion including rotation, scaling, additive noise, blurring, brightness, colour reduction and JPEG compression. Furthermore, our method can solve the false match problem and outperform existing ones in terms of precision and false positive rate. The proposed approach may serve as a basis for accurate digital image forensic investigations. \'a9 2019 KSII\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Copy move forgery detection (CMFD);  Digital image forensic;  Duplicated region detection;  Feature extraction;  QPCET\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 359\
Chen, C., Zhao, X., Stamm, M.C.\
57189029493;57192545235;34870520200;\
Generative Adversarial Attacks Against Deep-Learning-Based Camera Model Identification\
(2019) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, . Cited 12 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85072981571&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2019.2945198&partnerID=40&md5=237da75db4c0b880c684d8dc5b574cce\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2019.2945198\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA, 19104 USA.\
ABSTRACT: Recently, deep learning techniques have gained popularity in multimedia forensics research designed to accomplish tasks such as camera model identification. However, despite the success of deep learning techniques, research has shown that they are vulnerable to adversarial perturbations. These adversarial perturbations can cause deep learning classifiers to misclassify images even though the perturbations are imperceptible to human eyes. To understand the vulnerabilities of deep-learning-based forensic algorithms, we propose a novel anti-forensic framework inspired by generative adversarial networks that is capable of falsifying an image&#x2019;s source camera model. To accomplish this, we design a generator to anti-forensically falsify camera model traces in an image without introducing visually perceptible changes or artifacts. We propose two techniques to adversarially train this generator depending on the knowledge available to the attacker. In a white-box scenario when complete knowledge of an investigator&#x2019;s camera model identification network is available to an attacker, we directly incorporate the network into our generator&#x2019;s adversarial training strategy. In a black-box scenario when no internal details of the camera model classifier are available to the attacker, we construct a substitute network to mimic its decisions, then utilize this substitute network to adversarially train our generator. We conduct a series of experiments to evaluate the performance of our attack against several well-known CNNbased camera model classifiers. Experimental results show that our attack can successfully fool these CNNs in both white-box and black-box scenarios. Furthermore, our attack maintains high image quality and can be generalized to attack images from arbitrary source camera models. IEEE\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Black-box Attack;  Camera Model Identification;  Convolutional Neural Networks;  Generative Adversarial Network;  Substitute Network;  White-box Attack\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Article in Press\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 360\
Giudice, O., Guarnera, F., Paratore, A., Battiato, S.\
55613446900;57211180426;16310371000;6603989025;\
1-D DCT domain analysis for JPEG double compression detection\
(2019) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 11752 LNCS, pp. 716-726. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85072891140&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-30645-8_65&partnerID=40&md5=b3cab76fdc6308d2fb959a19db361356\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-30645-8_65\
AFFILIATIONS: Image Processing Laboratory, University of Catania, Catania, Italy; \
iCTLab s.r.l., Spin-off of University of Catania, Catania, Italy\
ABSTRACT: The authenticity of an evidence is a necessary and crucial requirement in forensic investigations and trials, expecially when it comes to digital evidences. In order to demonstrate the authenticity of a (digital) image, different techniques have been proposed in the last years which take advantage of some kinds of detectable anomalies on double or multiple compressed JPEG images. In this article, we present an in-depth analysis in the DCT Domain of an image exploiting the \'93first-digits\'94 statistics after 1D-DCT transformation. The insights thus obtained were used to build a simple and explainable classifier able to detect doubly compressed JPEG images; this approach seems to outperform much more complex techniques in the state-of-the-art. \'a9 Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2019.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: DCT coefficients;  DQD;  Image forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 361 **SELECTED** SID: 21\
Pieterse, H., Olivier, M., van Heerden, R.\
55487079900;7101741068;6506752785;\
Classifying the authenticity of evaluated smartphone data\
(2019) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 569, pp. 39-57. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85071465603&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-28752-8_3&partnerID=40&md5=1150a7c8d409209b7537e48d4547bda2\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-28752-8_3\
AFFILIATIONS: Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, Pretoria, South Africa; \
University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa; \
South African Research and Education Network in Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: Advances in smartphone technology coupled with the widespread use of smartphones in daily activities create large quantities of smartphone data. This data becomes increasingly important when smartphones are linked to civil or criminal investigations. As with all forms of digital data, smartphone data is susceptible to intentional or accidental alterations by users or installed applications. It is, therefore, essential to establish the authenticity of smartphone data before submitting it as evidence. Previous research has formulated a smartphone data evaluation model, which provides a methodical approach for evaluating the authenticity of smartphone data. However, the smartphone data evaluation model only stipulates how to evaluate smartphone data without providing a formal outcome about the authenticity of the data. This chapter proposes a new classification model that provides a grade of authenticity for evaluated smartphone data along with a measure of the completeness of the evaluation. Experimental results confirm the effectiveness of the proposed model in classifying the authenticity of smartphone data. \'a9 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing 2019.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: authenticity;  Mobile device forensics;  smartphone data\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 362\
Antwi-Boasiako, A., Venter, H.\
40761060300;7005841055;\
Implementing the harmonized model for digital evidence admissibility assessment\
(2019) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 569, pp. 19-36. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85071419764&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-28752-8_2&partnerID=40&md5=33ebee26251f596a82d5456141f765b6\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-28752-8_2\
AFFILIATIONS: e-Crime Bureau, Accra, Ghana; \
University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: Standardization of digital forensics has become an important focus area for researchers and criminal justice practitioners. Over the past decade, several efforts have been made to encapsulate digital forensic processes and activities in harmonized frameworks for incident investigations. A harmonized model for digital evidence admissibility assessment has been proposed for integrating the technical and legal determinants of digital evidence admissibility, thereby providing a techno-legal foundation for assessing digital evidence admissibility in judicial proceedings. This chapter presents an algorithm underlying the harmonized model for digital evidence admissibility assessment, which enables the determination of the evidential weight of digital evidence using factor analysis. The algorithm is designed to be used by judges to determine evidence admissibility in criminal proceedings. However, it should also be useful to investigators, prosecutors and defense lawyers for evaluating potential digital evidence before it is presented in court. \'a9 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing 2019.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence admissibility;  evidential weight;  factor analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 363\
Cao, G., Zhou, A., Huang, X., Song, G., Yang, L., Zhu, Y.\
57193213735;57210374477;13608596100;57209558778;25927723800;8656971000;\
Resampling detection of recompressed images via dual-stream convolutional neural network\
(2019) Mathematical Biosciences and Engineering, 16 (5), pp. 5022-5040. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85070498508&doi=10.3934%2fmbe.2019253&partnerID=40&md5=3ca7abc56a45e552da2760b950a3410e\
\
DOI: 10.3934/mbe.2019253\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science and Cybersecurity, Communication University of China, Beijing, 100024, China; \
Key Laboratory of Convergent Media and Intelligent Technology (Communication University of China), Ministry of Education, China; \
School of Data Science and Media Intelligence, Communication University of China, Beijing, 100024, China\
ABSTRACT: Resampling detection plays an important role in identifying image tampering, such as image splicing. Currently, the resampling detection is still difficult in recompressed images, which are yielded by applying resampling followed by post-JPEG compression to primary JPEG images. Except for the scenario of low quality primary compression, it remains rather challenging due to the widespread use of middle/high quality compression in imaging devices. In this paper, we propose a new convolution neural network (CNN) method to learn the resampling trace features directly from the recompressed images. To this end, a noise extraction layer based on low-order high pass filters is deployed to yield the image residual domain, which is more beneficial to extract manipulation trace features. A dual-stream CNN is presented to capture the resampling trails along different directions, where the horizontal and vertical network streams are interleaved and concatenated. Lastly, the learned features are fed into Sigmoid/Softmax layer, which acts as a binary/multiple classifier for achieving the blind detection and parameter estimation of resampling, respectively. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that our proposed method could detect resampling effectively in recompressed images and outperform the state-of-the-art detectors. \'a9 2019 the Author(s).\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Convolutional neural network;  Image forensics;  Interleaved stream;  Recompressed image;  Resampling detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 364\
Joseph, A., Singh, K.J.\
57201870706;54401325000;\
Crime pattern matching based on process execution context \'96 An evidence acquisition technique\
(2019) Journal of Advanced Research in Dynamical and Control Systems, 11 (4 Special Issue), pp. 202-211. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85070077421&partnerID=40&md5=9ec274dafefd53db37e2c2eb601158a6\
\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information Technology and Engineering, Vellore Institute of Technology, Vellore, India\
ABSTRACT: Once a digital crime is committed, the availability and collection of evidence data are becoming major challenges. This is because of large amount of data to analyse as well as complex data flow patterns in contemporary software systems. Compared to traditional methods of evidence collection which usually rely upon analysis of application and system logs, a security enhanced operating system kernel can make the evidence collection more authentic and comprehensive. In this paper, such a security solution is proposed (Crime Pattern Matching based on Process Execution Contexts-CPM-PEC) that includes a process monitoring mechanism that is implemented in OS kernel. The kernel mode process monitor reports potential security sensitive events to an application counterpart that analyses the events to find matches with potential crime patterns \'96which are pre-defined sequences of security sensitive events. This combination of kernel mode and user mode components makes sure that every process in the system is monitored from its creation to termination for various events in its lifetime and data flow between processes are also monitored. For evaluation purposes, the proposed solution is implemented and integrated to Linux Security Module (LSM). It is observed that less than 2% overhead is incurred by the addition of this proposed solution in Linux kernel. The future work shall focus on enhancing the digital forensic investigation process by distributed pattern matching to prevent the crime before the damage is widespread. \'a9 2019, Institute of Advanced Scientific Research, Inc. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital crime patterns;  Digital provenance;  Execution context;  Forensic evidence acquisition;  Information flow control;  OS kernel\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 365\
Mogano, N.\
57210235526;\
A standardization guide for homomorphic encryption applications for digital forensic investigations\
(2019) European Conference on Information Warfare and Security, ECCWS, 2019-July, pp. 769-776. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85070015821&partnerID=40&md5=438e921e0acc132e3313f607981810fb\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Faculty of Engineering, Built\'96Environment and Information Technology, University of Pretoria, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: In recent years, cloud computing has emerged as an important paradigm in the computing environment due to its many advantages both to individuals as well as corporates. Some of these advantages include cost efficiencies, increased storage space and many other benefits associated with handing over responsibility to a third party for access to data and information as and when needed. The recent advancement in technology has resulted in the growing need to perform more functions, either than storage, in the cloud whilst maintaining the security and functionality aspect of cloud computing. Homomorphic encryption has been hailed as the holy grail of modern computing, it allows specific types of computations to be carried out on the encrypted data without having to decrypt beforehand as is the case with regular encryption methods. In this case, the client would need to provide the private key to the server for decryption prior to a desired manipulation of data, which might affect the confidentiality and privacy of the stored data. Recent literature highlights the importance of a homomorphic encryption scheme that is able to maintain security and still remain efficient in performing tasks. There are numerous homomorphic cryptosystems that have been proposed but not all have been proven to be practical in specific real-life scenarios. Although there have been few attempts, the lack of standardization has led to many experts in the field merely providing an intuitive approach to the implementation of homomorphic encryption for specified applications as a result attracting some resistance in the information technology industry. Also, this gap has brought about concerns regarding data and information security thus hindering the wide adoption of homomorphic encryption. This paper aims to provide a guide to the implementation of the existing homomorphic encryption schemes across various applications to enable a digital forensic investigation process to follow in order to address the highlighted concerns in a manner that can be measurable and mitigated. A matter analysis of empirical studies available on these applications will be presented. \'a9 2019, Curran Associates Inc. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud security;  Cryptosystems;  Digital forensic evidence;  Digital forensic investigation;  Fully homomorphic encryption (FHE);  Homomorphic encryption (HE)\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 366\
Luo, S., Peng, A., Zeng, H., Kang, X., Liu, L.\
57207927362;55247349200;56970301000;7102354750;56080380000;\
Deep Residual Learning Using Data Augmentation for Median Filtering Forensics of Digital Images\
(2019) IEEE Access, 7, art. no. 8736870, pp. 80614-80621. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85069037844&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2019.2923000&partnerID=40&md5=c2874a452cdd473f34be780ba3599dcb\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2923000\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science and Technology, Southwest University of Science and Technology, Mianyang, 62010, China; \
Guangdong Province Key Laboratory of Information Security Technology, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510275, China; \
Marvell Semiconductor Inc., Santa Clara, CA  95054, United States\
ABSTRACT: This paper addresses the median filtering forensics for a lossy compressed image with low resolution, which is essential for the identification of fake images and fake videos. A deep residual model with training data augmentation is employed in the proposed method. To solve the dilemma that the low-resolution image is the lack of enough statistical pixels for extracting reliable features, we propose a filter layer to widen the inputs for the convolutional neural network (CNN). First, we perform the high-pass filtering to an image in the filtered layer and stack the multiple filtered residuals into 16-channel feature maps as inputs of CNN. Then, a deep residual CNN model has proposed to self-learn the median filtering traces that are hidden in the JPEG lossy compressed image. To alleviate the over-fitting issue of the deeper CNN model, we employ a data augmentation scheme in the training to increase the diversity of training data and, thus, obtain a more stable median filtering detector. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed net with training data augmentation outperforms state of the arts in both baseline test and generalization ability test, achieving at least 2% higher in terms of detection accuracy. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: convolutional neural network;  deep learning;  median filtering forensics;  Multimedia security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 367 **SELECTED** SID: 22\
Pieterse, H., Olivier, M., van Heerden, R.\
55487079900;7101741068;6506752785;\
Detecting Manipulated Smartphone Data on Android and iOS Devices\
(2019) Communications in Computer and Information Science, 973, pp. 89-103. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85066902475&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-11407-7_7&partnerID=40&md5=84f3374101f84d0439e9d6f57e7db83a\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-11407-7_7\
AFFILIATIONS: Defence, Peace, Safety and Security, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, Pretoria, South Africa; \
Department of Computer Science, University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa; \
National Integrated Cyber Infrastructure System, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, Pretoria, South Africa; \
School of Information and Communication Technology, Nelson Mandela University, Port Elizabeth, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: Ever improving technology allows smartphones to become an integral part of people\'92s lives. The reliance on and ubiquitous use of smartphones render these devices rich sources of data. This data becomes increasingly important when smartphones are linked to criminal or corporate investigations. To erase data and mislead digital forensic investigations, end-users can manipulate the data and change recorded events. This paper investigates the effects of manipulating smartphone data on both the Google Android and Apple iOS platforms. The deployed steps leads to the formulation of a generic process for smartphone data manipulation. To assist digital forensic professionals with the detection of such manipulated smartphone data, this paper introduces an evaluation framework for smartphone data. The framework uses key traces left behind as a result of the manipulation of smartphone data to construct techniques to detect the changed data. The outcome of this research study successfully demonstrates the manipulation of smartphone data and presents preliminary evidence that the suggested framework can assist with the detection of manipulated smartphone data. \'a9 2019, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android;  Digital forensics;  iOS;  Manipulation;  Mobile forensics;  Smartphone data;  Smartphones\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 368\
Weilbach, W.T., Motara, Y.M.\
57209223475;15521134400;\
Distributed Ledger Technology to Support Digital Evidence Integrity Verification Processes\
(2019) Communications in Computer and Information Science, 973, pp. 1-15. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85066891732&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-11407-7_1&partnerID=40&md5=a9c21a9ddd6dd1bbac8b1922edc132f2\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-11407-7_1\
AFFILIATIONS: Rhodes University, Grahamstown, 6140, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: This paper examines the way in which blockchain technology can be used to improve the integrity of the chain of evidence in digital forensics. A particular scalable method of verifying point-in-time existence of a piece of digital evidence, using the OpenTimestamps (OTS) service, is described, and tests are carried out to independently validate the claims made by the service. The results demonstrate that the OTS service is highly reliable, but not suitable for time-sensitive digital timestamping. \'a9 2019, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Blockchain;  Digital forensics;  Evidence integrity\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 369\
Xiao, J., Li, S., Xu, Q.\
57195945923;24366415400;57209213668;\
Video-Based Evidence Analysis and Extraction in Digital Forensic Investigation\
(2019) IEEE Access, 7, art. no. 8700194, pp. 55432-55442. Cited 11 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85066875566&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2019.2913648&partnerID=40&md5=d902726c6147b992977f3dcede686720\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2913648\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science and Engineering, Central South University, Hunan, Changsha, China; \
Central South Ultrapower Infotech Co. Ltd., Changsha, 410205, China; \
Department of Computer Science and Creative Technologies, University of the West of England, Bristol, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: As a result of the popularity of smart mobile devices and the low cost of surveillance systems, visual data are increasingly being used in digital forensic investigation. Digital videos have been widely used as key evidence sources in evidence identification, analysis, presentation, and report. The main goal of this paper is to develop advanced forensic video analysis techniques to assist the forensic investigation. We first propose a forensic video analysis framework that employs an efficient video/image enhancing algorithm for the low quality of footage analysis. An adaptive video enhancement algorithm based on contrast limited adaptive histogram equalization (CLAHE) is introduced to improve the closed-circuit television (CCTV) footage quality for the use of digital forensic investigation. To assist the video-based forensic analysis, a deep-learning-based object detection and tracking algorithm are proposed that can detect and identify potential suspects and tools from footages. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: deep learning;  forensic video analysis;  Forensics investigation;  object detection;  video/image enhancement\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 370\
Alhassan, J., Muhammed, A., Iwokhagh, N., Aibinu, M., Ojeniyi, J., Uduimoh, A.\
45860990400;57208881729;57208878559;57208883028;57188695354;57208887157;\
Effective policing apparatus in Nigeria: The place of forensic soundness\
(2019) 14th International Conference on Cyber Warfare and Security, ICCWS 2019, pp. 1-10. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85066055258&partnerID=40&md5=1a77439014b08813d56e0b1eec916249\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Cyber Security Science, Federal University of Technology, Minna, Nigeria; \
Department of Mathematics, Federal University of Technology, Minna, Nigeria; \
Department of Information and Media Technology, Federal University of Technology, Minna, Nigeria; \
Department of Mechatronic, Federal University of Technology, Minna, Nigeria\
ABSTRACT: The acquisition of a reliable evidence during litigation is a major policing-challenge especially among the policing agent in developing nations. Whilst most policing agents have adopted technology towards evidence gathering, analysis and representation through mobile applications, the reliability of these digital evidences are often overlooked. To examine this probable anti-forensic practice, this study evaluated police-assisted mobile application based on the number of application-download and user rating on the Google playstore. Furthermore, the study developed a forensic-process model for the integration of reliable forensic practice into police-assisted mobile application development. Based on the developed forensic practice the study evaluated the practicability of ensuring the forensic-soundness of police-assisted mobile application. The result from the evaluation supports the underlying level of forensic-soundness through which evidence admissibility can be ensured. This finding therefore establishes an empirical expose for awareness and the mitigation process against the anti-forensic practices. Additionally, the finding provides a justification for the acceptance or rejection of an evidence acquired from police-assisted digital applications. \'a9 2019 14th International Conference on Cyber Warfare and Security, ICCWS 2019. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Developing nation;  Digital evidence;  Digital policing;  Evidence admissibility;  Forensic soundness\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 371\
Lee, S., Choi, W., Jo, H.J., Lee, D.H.\
57208586729;57215922027;56246802100;55460760500;\
T-Box: A Forensics-Enabled Trusted Automotive Data Recording Method\
(2019) IEEE Access, 7, art. no. 8689029, pp. 49738-49755. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85065203147&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2019.2910865&partnerID=40&md5=ebeb4cd95d4791a9bde090c75df7acae\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2910865\
AFFILIATIONS: Graduate School of Information Security, Korea University, Seoul, 02841, South Korea; \
School of Software, Hallym University, Chuncheon, 24252, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Modern vehicles are equipped with numerous electric control units which exchange vehicular status data, providing drivers with convenience, efficiency, and safety. In addition, the autonomous vehicles adopt various sensors that produce high volumes of high-speed data to process and assess internal and external situations. This data is particularly useful to automotive service providers such as car insurers, rental companies, and manufacturers. One way to understand how this data is used is to imagine the scenario in which an automobile insurer would provide a discount to a customer with an accident-free or near accident-free driving record. However, it is still possible that a less than the honest customer could manipulate their driving data in order to receive premium insurance services at preferential rates. To prevent this and similar scenarios, it is then critical to ensure that all data generated in a vehicle upholds integrity, continuity, and non-repudiation. Unfortunately, no such trustworthy data recording system of this caliber exists in any manufactured vehicle to date. This paper attempts to respond to this need, and we present a reliable automotive data recording system that satisfies these requirements and detects malicious manipulations from data deletion, replacement, replaying, and truncation. The proposed method additionally satisfies forward integrity of message authentication keys and is designed to utilize recorded data as automotive forensic evidence. Finally, the evaluation results demonstrate that our system can manage bandwidths of up to 64 MB/s. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: ARM TrustZone;  audit trail;  digital forensics;  event data recorder;  Forward integrity\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopes\
\
ID: 372\
Amerini, I., Li, C.-T., Caldelli, R.\
27567536300;26648782200;6603103996;\
Social Network Identification Through Image Classification with CNN\
(2019) IEEE Access, 7, art. no. 8668410, pp. 35264-35273. Cited 18 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85063873642&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2019.2903876&partnerID=40&md5=2b272a9093c1692e885d01f0377e9ae0\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2903876\
AFFILIATIONS: Media Integration and Communication Center, University of Florence, Florence, 50134, Italy; \
School of Computing and Mathematics, Charles Sturt University, Wagga Wagga, NSW  2650, Australia; \
Department of Computer Science, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom; \
National Inter-University Consortium for Telecommunications, Parma, 43124, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Identification of the source social network based on the downloaded images is an important multimedia forensic task with significant cybersecurity implications in light of the sheer volume of images and videos shared across various social media platforms. Such a task has been proved possible by exploiting distinctive traces embedded in image content by social networks (SNs). To further advance the development of this area, we propose a novel framework, called FusionNET, that integrates two established convolutional neural networks (CNNs), with the former (named 1D-CNN) learning discriminative features from the histogram of discrete cosine transform coefficients and the latter (named 2D-CNN) inferring unique attributes from the sensor-related noise residual of the images in question. The separately learned features are then fused by the FusionNET to inform the ensuing source identification or source-oriented image classification component. A series of experiments were conducted on a number of image datasets across various SNs and instant messaging apps to validate the feasibility of the FusionNET also in comparison with the performance of the 1D-CNN and 2D-CNN. The encouraging results were observed. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: CNN;  cybersecurity;  image provenance;  multimedia forensics;  noise residual;  Source identification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 373\
Peng, A., Luo, S., Zeng, H., Wu, Y.\
55247349200;57207927362;56970301000;7406897461;\
Median filtering forensics using multiple models in residual domain\
(2019) IEEE Access, 7, art. no. 8635456, pp. 28525-28538. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85063271110&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2019.2897761&partnerID=40&md5=2d8c5836e90f47cbb87e3dfd76ab0b1d\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2897761\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science and Technology, Southwest University of Science and Technology, Mianyang, 621010, China; \
Guangdong Province Key Laboratory of Information Security Technology, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510275, China; \
Sichuan Civil-Military Integration Institute, Southwest University of Science and Technology, Mianyang, 621010, China\
ABSTRACT: Median filtering, due to highly non-linear and content-preserving, has widely used in the multimedia security fields, such as anti-forensics, steganography, and steganalysis. In the past decade, many excellent algorithms have been proposed, and have solved median filtering forensics perfectly for images without post-processing. However, it is still a challenging task when the test images are of low resolution and post-processed by lossy JPEG compression. Moreover, in order to meet the requirements of detecting forgery from the massive image database in the social network, a fast and efficient detector is needed. In this paper, we present an improved method for median filtering forensics in challenging problems, such as detecting median filtering from a heavily JPEG compressed image. To do this, we first investigate median filtering traces by a group of diverse residuals. These residuals not only eliminate influence from image contents but also highlight the traces from different aspects. We then construct a feature set on the residuals by incorporating the Markov chain model with the auto-regressive model. These two compensated models effectively reveal different relationships among neighboring residuals. For a fast detector, a series of dimension reduction methods are employed. The experimental results on a composite image database demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms prior arts when detecting median filtering in heavily JPEG compressed images as well as low-resolution images. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: auto-regressive model;  Digital image forensics;  Markov chain;  median filtering forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 374\
Ding, X., Chen, Y., Tang, Z., Huang, Y.\
57204367131;57201590548;57207691213;57204367647;\
Camera Identification Based on Domain Knowledge-Driven Deep Multi-Task Learning\
(2019) IEEE Access, 7, art. no. 8633894, pp. 25878-25890. Cited 13 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85062725668&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2019.2897360&partnerID=40&md5=df7ccf0440eeacdef2b379933c36ceda\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2897360\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information Science and Engineering, Xiamen University, Xiamen, 361000, China\
ABSTRACT: Camera identification has recently attracted considerable attention in the image forensic field of research. Several algorithms have been established based on the hand-crafted features and deep learning, through analysis of the traces achieved by the digital image acquisition process. Although these approaches have led to a breakthrough in the image forensics, some important problems still remain unsolved. For instance, extracting the hand-crafted features with human efforts is a difficult and time-consuming process, while data-driven deep learning methods tend to learn features that represent image contents rather than cameras' characteristics. To fully take advantages of both hand-crafted and data-driven technologies, we propose a domain knowledge-driven method, which consists of one pre-processing module, one feature extractor, and one hierarchical multi-task learning procedure. The pre-processing module can introduce the domain knowledge to the subsequent deep learning network. Moreover, for device-level identification, hierarchical multi-task learning can provide more supervise information from the brand and model. The proposed framework is evaluated on three different tasks, i.e., the brand, model, and device-level identification using original and manipulated images. Our classification results demonstrate that the proposed method is effective and robust. To evaluate the robustness of the proposed method, we create a new database for the cell-phone identification and evaluate the proposed method. It is found that the accuracy of the cell-phone device identification can reach 84.3%, which is much higher than that of the camera identification. Moreover, the t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding visualization results confirm that the features of different cell-phone devices are visually more separable than cameras. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Camera identification;  cell-phone identification;  domain knowledge-driven;  image forensic filed;  multi-task learning\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 375\
Shan, W., Yi, Y., Qiu, J., Yin, A.\
55440909100;12762900200;57206471364;57206484842;\
Robust Median Filtering Forensics Using Image Deblocking and Filtered Residual Fusion\
(2019) IEEE Access, 7, art. no. 8625472, pp. 17174-17183. Cited 11 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85061726826&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2019.2894981&partnerID=40&md5=caeb0ed2437fc1bf5f0ba11218624b72\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2894981\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Printing and Packaging, Wuhan University, Wuhan, 430079, China; \
Institute of Fashion and Art Design, Sichuan Normal University, Chengdu, 610101, China; \
Zhuhai Pantum Electronics Co., Ltd., Zhuhai, 610101, China\
ABSTRACT: Median filtering (MF) is frequently applied to conceal the traces of forgery and therefore can provide indirect forensic evidence of tampering when investigating composite images. The existing MF forensic methods, however, ignore how JPEG compression affects median filtered images, resulting in heavy performance degradation when detecting filtered images stored in the JPEG format. In this paper, we propose a new robust MF forensic method based on a modified convolutional neural network (CNN). First, relying on the analysis of the influence on median filtered images caused by JPEG compression, we effectively suppress the interference using image deblocking. Second, the fingerprints left by MF are highlighted via filtered residual fusion. These two functions are fulfilled with a deblocking layer and a fused filtered residual (FFR) layer. Finally, the output of the FFR layer becomes input when extracting multiple features for further classification using a tailor-made CNN. The extensive experimental results show that the proposed method outperforms the state-of-the-art methods in both JPEG compressed and small-sized MF image detection. \'a9 2019 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: convolutional neural networks;  image deblocking;  JPEG compression;  Median filtering;  robust forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 376 **SELECTED** SID: 23\
Dokko, J., Shin, M.\
57205349364;36832346000;\
A Digital Forensic Investigation and Verification Model for Industrial Espionage\
(2019) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, LNICST, 259, pp. 128-146. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85059694412&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-05487-8_7&partnerID=40&md5=415b0b29bc6de4e5162a6e156de30adc\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-05487-8_7\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX  19409, United States; \
Supreme Prosecutors\'92 Office, Seoul, 06590, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: This paper describes a digital forensic investigation and verification model for industrial espionage (DEIV-IE) focusing on insider data thefts at the company level. This model aims to advance the state-of practice in forensic investigation and to verify evidence sufficiency of industrial espionage cases by incorporating the crime specific features and analysis techniques of digital evidence. The model is structured with six phases: file reduction, file classification, crime feature identification, evidence mapping, evidence sufficiency verification, and documentations. In particular, we focus on characterizing crime features that have multiple aspects of commonalities in crime patterns in industrial espionage; and the evidence sufficiency verification that is a verification procedure for digital evidence sufficiency for court decision using these crime features. This model has been developed based on analysis of five industrial espionage cases and the literature review, being validated with three additional cases in terms of the effectiveness of the model. \'a9 2019, ICST Institute for Computer Sciences, Social Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Behavioral evidence analysis;  Digital evidence verification;  Digital forensic investigation;  Digital forensics triage;  Evidence prioritization;  Industrial espionage\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 377\
10th International Conference on Digital Forensics and Cyber Crime, ICDF2C 2018\
(2019) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, LNICST, 259, 234 p. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85059687542&partnerID=40&md5=c02e835e44dad2a459f8b8abec335767\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 12 papers. The special focus in this conference is on Digital Forensics and Cyber Crime. The topics include: Multi-item Passphrases: A Self-adaptive Approach Against Offline Guessing Attacks; hybrid Intrusion Detection System for Worm Attacks Based on Their Network Behavior; fishy - A Framework for Implementing Filesystem-Based Data Hiding Techniques; if I Had a Million Cryptos: Cryptowallet Application Analysis and a Trojan Proof-of-Concept; androParse - An Android Feature Extraction Framework and Dataset; digital Forensic Readiness Framework for Ransomware Investigation; forensics Analysis of an On-line Game over Steam Platform; a Digital Forensic Investigation and Verification Model for Industrial Espionage; solid State Drive Forensics: Where Do We Stand?; associating Drives Based on Their Artifact and Metadata Distributions.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 378\
Haigh, T., Breitinger, F., Baggili, I.\
57205352330;44260893600;37261105300;\
If I Had a Million Cryptos: Cryptowallet Application Analysis and a Trojan Proof-of-Concept\
(2019) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, LNICST, 259, pp. 45-65. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85059679887&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-05487-8_3&partnerID=40&md5=2fc5e648a0e9a1898ae0b52dcbbd001b\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-05487-8_3\
AFFILIATIONS: Cyber Forensics Research and Education Group (UNHcFREG), Tagliatela College of Engineering University of New Haven, West Haven, CT  06516, United States\
ABSTRACT: Cryptocurrencies have gained wide adoption by enthusiasts and investors. In this work, we examine seven different Android cryptowallet applications for forensic artifacts, but we also assess their security against tampering and reverse engineering. Some of the biggest benefits of cryptocurrency is its security and relative anonymity. For this reason it is vital that wallet applications share the same properties. Our work, however, indicates that this is not the case. Five of the seven applications we tested do not implement basic security measures against reverse engineering. Three of the applications stored sensitive information, like wallet private keys, insecurely and one was able to be decrypted with some effort. One of the applications did not require root access to retrieve the data. We were also able to implement a proof-of-concept trojan which exemplifies how a malicious actor may exploit the lack of security in these applications and exfiltrate user data and cryptocurrency. \'a9 2019, ICST Institute for Computer Sciences, Social Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android;  Bitcoin;  Coinbase;  Cryptocurrency;  Cryptowallet\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 379\
Rowe, N.C.\
7103322979;\
Associating Drives Based on Their Artifact and Metadata Distributions\
(2019) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, LNICST, 259, pp. 165-182. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85059662407&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-05487-8_9&partnerID=40&md5=72f3ec46debc9030c036cf5f9c554ba4\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-05487-8_9\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Science, U.S. Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, CA, United States\
ABSTRACT: Associations between drive images can be important in many forensic investigations, particularly those involving organizations, conspiracies, or contraband. This work investigated metrics for comparing drives based on the distributions of 18 types of clues. The clues were email addresses, phone numbers, personal names, street addresses, possible bank-card numbers, GPS data, files in zip archives, files in rar archives, IP addresses, keyword searches, hash values on files, words in file names, words in file names of Web sites, file extensions, immediate directories of files, file sizes, weeks of file creation times, and minutes within weeks of file creation. Using a large corpus of drives, we computed distributions of document association using the cosine similarity TF/IDF formula and Kullback-Leibler divergence formula. We provide significance criteria for similarity based on our tests that are well above those obtained from random distributions. We also compared similarity and divergence values, investigated the benefits of filtering and sampling the data before measuring association, examined the similarities of the same drive at different times, and developed useful visualization techniques for the associations. \'a9 2019, ICST Institute for Computer Sciences, Social Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Artifacts;  Divergence;  Drives;  Forensics;  Link analysis;  Metadata;  Similarity\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 380\
Camacho, S., Ballesteros L, D.M., Renza, D.\
57159280400;57192904297;36667320700;\
A cloud-oriented integrity verification system for audio forensics\
(2019) Computers and Electrical Engineering, 73, pp. 259-267. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85057855249&doi=10.1016%2fj.compeleceng.2018.11.022&partnerID=40&md5=c490c310f9aec2b090b10ea374915eb8\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.compeleceng.2018.11.022\
AFFILIATIONS: Facultad de Ingenier\'eda, Universidad Militar Nueva Granada, Bogot\'e1, Colombia\
ABSTRACT: Integrity analysis is an important task in the field of audio forensics. Its aim is to verify if an evidence (i.e. audio recording) has been manipulated or not. With the aim of providing a solution for the chain of custody, we propose a system that encompasses capture module, the hash value of the audio recording, cloud storage and integrity verification module. In order to validate the properties of the proposed hash function and its execution time, several tests were performed. According to the results, the user of our system can demonstrate/verify the integrity of the evidence in any moment after the recording process. \'a9 2018 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Authenticity;  Cloud solution;  Digital forensics;  Hash;  Integrity;  Tampering detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 381\
Chernyshev, M., Zeadally, S., Baig, Z.\
56446908300;7003472739;14008320400;\
Healthcare Data Breaches: Implications for Digital Forensic Readiness\
(2019) Journal of Medical Systems, 43 (1), art. no. 7, . Cited 25 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85057537402&doi=10.1007%2fs10916-018-1123-2&partnerID=40&md5=bd4f5ba0d8fbeab00a8e6590557b87fc\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s10916-018-1123-2\
AFFILIATIONS: Edith Cowan University, Perth, Australia; \
University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY  40506-0224, United States; \
Commonweath Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO), Data61, Melbourne, Australia\
ABSTRACT: While the healthcare industry is undergoing disruptive digital transformation, data breaches involving health information are not usually the result of integration of new technologies. Based on published industry reports, fundamental security safeguards are still considered to be lacking with many documented data breaches occurring as the result of device and equipment theft, human error, hacking, ransomware attacks and misuse. Health information is considered to be one of the most attractive targets for cybercriminals due to its inherent sensitivity, but digital investigations of incidents involving health information are often constrained by the lack of the necessary infrastructure forensic readiness. Following the analysis of healthcare data breach causes and threats, we describe the associated digital forensic readiness challenges in the context of the most significant incident causes. With specific focus on privilege misuse, we present a conceptual architecture for forensic audit logging to assist with capture of the relevant digital artefacts in support of possible future digital investigations. \'a9 2018, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer crime;  Forensics;  Health information management;  Security;  Threat\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 382\
Page, H., Horsman, G., Sarna, A., Foster, J.\
55863419000;55366646200;55862984000;57204003743;\
A review of quality procedures in the UK forensic sciences: What can the field of digital forensics learn?\
(2019) Science and Justice, 59 (1), pp. 83-92. Cited 17 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85054006560&doi=10.1016%2fj.scijus.2018.09.006&partnerID=40&md5=4d3efe4f5b4f82f9357a95adc2605824\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.scijus.2018.09.006\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Science, Engineering & Design, Teesside University, Middlesbrough, North Yorkshire, United Kingdom; \
Forensic Recovery Unit, Specialist Crime Command, Surrey Police, Guildford, United Kingdom; \
Fostering Forensics Ltd, Suite 17, Innovation House, 26 Longfield Road, South Church Enterprise Park, Bishop Auckland, County Durham, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: With a reliance on the various forms of forensic science evidence in complex criminal investigations, the measures for ensuring its quality are facing increasing scrutiny. Improvements to quality management systems, to ensure both the robust application of scientific principles and the accurate interpretation and reporting of results, have arisen as a consequence of high-profile rebuttals of forensic science evidence, combined with process improvements driven by evaluation of current practice. These improvements are crucial to ensure validity of results as well as providing assurance for all those involved in the Criminal Justice System. This work first examines the quality management systems utilised for the examination and analysis of fingerprint, body fluid and DNA evidence. It then proceeds to highlight an apparent lack of comparable quality assurance mechanisms within the field of digital forensics, one of the newest branches of forensic science. Proposals are provided for the improvement of quality assurance for the digital forensics arena, drawing on the experiences of, and more well-established practices within, other forensic disciplines. \'a9 2018\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Codes of practice and conduct;  Digital forensics;  DNA, Fingerprint;  Forensic science;  Peer review\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 383\
Olajide, F., Al-Hadrami, T., James-Taylor, A.\
37261854400;55243400100;57203984999;\
Digital investigation and forensic user analysis\
(2019) Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, 843, pp. 630-640. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85053910537&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-99007-1_59&partnerID=40&md5=1815ed372edb07f05c3933381fd9f80a\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-99007-1_59\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Science and Technology, Nottingham Trent University, Nottingham, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Today\'92s digital forensic investigation centre towards data collection, preservation, extraction, evidence searching, reconstructions of relevant user input analysis, and evidence presentation of user involvement in business applications. In this research, stages of digital investigation are applied on various experiments carried out on user input information. A typical business environment of security incidence was investigated on use case element of business applications. In this paper, design methodology discussed how images were captured and processed for investigation. The extraction procedure was formulated at interval and dump memory of the extracted information determines artifacts of user evidence per time of user activities on sample memory application. Validated extracted information was analysed and as reconstructed, presented in quantitative assessment of user input, on sample use cases of business applications of MS Outlook and Adobe. The research investigation uncovers how user input information are stored and recovered from the application memory and for use as evidence. \'a9 Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2019.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Business;  Business;  Computer;  Evidence;  Forensic;  Memory;  Physical;  User input\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 384\
Olajide, F., Al-Hadrami, T., James-Taylor, A.\
37261854400;55243400100;57203984999;\
Forensic use case analysis of user input in windows application\
(2019) Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, 843, pp. 620-629. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85053884187&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-99007-1_58&partnerID=40&md5=638275dec34adac2df03abb717003e57\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-99007-1_58\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Science and Technology, Nottingham Trent University, Nottingham, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Most of digital investigation research on Windows application covers stages of investigation that covers key aspect of forensic image collection, preservation, dumped data and extraction, searching for evidence and possible reconstructions of user input evidence and analysis in a use case environment of business organisations. The user activities on some of the business applications can reveal user involvement on the perception of cyber-human factor. Tangible user information were extracted and reconstructed to determine the forensic artifact in Windows business application. On investigations, the forensic validation process of key stages of digital investigation revealed relevant information on various experiments carried out. The research idea focus on the use cases of MS PowerPoint and MS Excel of Windows business applications. The research determined and formulated the extraction process of user evidence from a sample memory forensics investigation. The quantitative assessment of relevant information was presented to uncovers how user input information are stored and as recovered from the application memory. In this paper, a design methodology to capture, extract and process relevant user information was described on the two most commonly used applications on Windows systems. \'a9 Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2019.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Application;  Business;  Digital;  Forensics;  Information;  Input;  Investigation;  Use case;  User\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 385 **SELECTED** SID: 24\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf2 \uc0\u922 
\f0 arampidis, K., Deligiannis, I., Papadourakis, G.\
57201881849;57190660257;6602850089;\
Combining genetic algorithms and neural networks for file forgery detection\
(2019) Intelligent Systems Reference Library, 149, pp. 317-335. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85049515717&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-94030-4_12&partnerID=40&md5=8c165ae0e1d5898c7e8a92912c80c20f\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-94030-4_12\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information & Communication Systems Engineering, University of the Aegean, Karlovasi, Samos, 83200, Greece; \
Department of Cultural Heritage Management and New Technologies, University of Patras, G. Seferi 2, Agrinio, 30100, Greece; \
Department of Informatics Engineering, Technological Educational Institute of Crete, Heraklion, Crete, 71500, Greece\
ABSTRACT: Today\'92s electronic devices are so ubiquitous that the collection and use of digital evidence has become a standard part of many criminal and civil investigations. The uncovering and examination of those shreds of evidence is a relatively new and important process to provide crucial information in a court of law. Suspects routinely have their laptops and cell phones examined for corroborating evidence. However, digital forensic investigators are facing several challenges such as file obfuscation, encryption, alteration and a massive amount of evidence. These challenges often lead to incomplete analysis and inadequate conclusions. Consequently, a digital forensic examiner uses specialized forensic software to accurately identify the file types to determine which of them may contain potential evidence. \'a9 2019, Springer International Publishing AG, part of Springer Nature.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 386\
Hasanabadi, S.S., Lashkari, A.H., Ghorbani, A.A.\
57221328243;35069899900;57219106164;\
The Next Generation of Robust Linux Memory Acquisition Technique via Sequential Memory Dumps at Designated Time Intervals\
(2018) Proceedings - International Carnahan Conference on Security Technology, 2018-October, art. no. 8585490, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85060692905&doi=10.1109%2fCCST.2018.8585490&partnerID=40&md5=d6efbb989657d2e12a93ee6dde10b474\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CCST.2018.8585490\
AFFILIATIONS: Canadian Institute for Cybersecurity, University of New Brunswick (UNB), Fredericton, NB, Canada\
ABSTRACT: The memory forensics techniques assist digital investigators to identify and detect remaining evidence of the attacks on the compromised system. The accuracy of performing the analysis is depend to the completeness, atomicity, and reliability of the memory acquisition output. Regarding to our research, the most current critical challenges in memory forensics are increasing the size of physical memory, the elapsed time of memory acquisition, malicious tampering and page smearing effects, and anti-forensics techniques. By addressing these challenges, we proposed an approach to determine approximately how much sequential memory acquisition at a designated time-intervals can mitigate them. This mitigation includes reducing I/O operations in memory acquisition to speed it up, diminishing malicious tampering and page smearing effects, and impact of anti-forensics techniques. The results of our experiments on different Linux operating system families show the best interval time for sequential memory acquisition is 3 minutes with the similarity ration between 9% to 23%. The proposed approach is applicable to software-based and hardware-based memory acquisition methods. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics Techniques;  Designated TimeIintervals;  Memory Acquisition;  Memory Forensics;  Sequential Dumps\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 387\
Rasin, A., Wagner, J., Heart, K., Grier, J.\
9738559600;56768652900;56543572900;45561300400;\
Establishing Independent Audit Mechanisms for Database Management Systems\
(2018) 2018 IEEE International Symposium on Technologies for Homeland Security, HST 2018, art. no. 8574150, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85060446869&doi=10.1109%2fTHS.2018.8574150&partnerID=40&md5=c09ff25fc10570cdbb82d1e9408afed5\
\
DOI: 10.1109/THS.2018.8574150\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computing, DePaul University, Chicago, IL, United States; \
Grier Forensics, Pikesville, MD, United States\
ABSTRACT: The pervasive use of databases for the storage of critical and sensitive information in many organizations has led to an increase in the rate at which databases are exploited in computer crimes. While there are several techniques and tools available for database forensic analysis, such tools usually assume an apriori database preparation, such as relying on tamper-detection software to already be in place and the use of detailed logging. Further, such tools are built-in and thus can be compromised or corrupted along with the database itself. In practice, investigators need forensic and security audit tools that work on poorlyconfigured systems and make no assumptions about the extent of damage or malicious hacking in a database.In this paper, we present our database forensics methods, which are capable of examining database content from a storage (disk or RAM) image without using any log or file system metadata. We describe how these methods can be used to detect security breaches in an untrusted environment where the security threat arose from a privileged user (or someone who has obtained such privileges). Finally, we argue that a comprehensive and independent audit framework is necessary in order to detect and counteract threats in an environment where the security breach originates from an administrator (either at database or operating system level). \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Database forensics;  Evidence gathering;  Security audit\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 388\
Preethi, T., Priyadharshini, M., Sakthivel, V.\
57224172329;56803818400;57205490134;\
Origin Classification in Social Network Based on Image Enhancement\
(2018) ICSNS 2018 - Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Soft-Computing and Network Security, art. no. 8573615, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85060210852&doi=10.1109%2fICSNS.2018.8573615&partnerID=40&md5=66bee862e01867627a784bb118310dc5\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICSNS.2018.8573615\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of CSE, KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology, Coimbatore, TN, India\
ABSTRACT: Digital image forensics is a term with different contexts and meaning. The term image forensics is used to designate the survey of the originality of the image file, asses the presence of forgeries and to identify the device in which the picture was occurred. Digital image forensic method is used to maintain image authentication. Image authentication is an accurate representation of the original image. Verification could be fined to ensure digital contents usually pictures and forgeries can be eliminated by using image classification. DCT is used to detect the source of the images from different social networks. For this purpose, an asset of image characterization is defined to determine the origination of digital camera. Interpolation or filtering technologies can be used to eliminate the noise. There by grouping of images enables finding forgeries in the social network. The proposed technique is used to find out traces of the image from the corresponding social networks and such traces can be discovered to identify the platform of the image. Using existing method, it is possible to determine the origin in the social network. Whereas, the further process can be used to find the original JPEG image and it can be converted to give the same quality when it is uploaded on the social network. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: DCT;  Finger Print;  JPEG;  Social Network\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 389\
Bhardwaj, D., Kumawat, C., Pankajakshan, V.\
57190293585;57201898896;6506890403;\
Detection of Various Anti-Forensic Operations Based on DCT Coefficient Analysis\
(2018) INDICON 2018 - 15th IEEE India Council International Conference, art. no. 8987032, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85082585022&doi=10.1109%2fINDICON45594.2018.8987032&partnerID=40&md5=e61a1215f43f80eab69144107ee0738d\
\
DOI: 10.1109/INDICON45594.2018.8987032\
AFFILIATIONS: IIT Roorkee, Dept. of ECE, Roorkee, India\
ABSTRACT: In this paper, a simple and efficient technique is proposed for differentiating various types of anti-forensically modified images from uncompressed and JPEG images. We propose a pattern classification based framework in which a 64-dimensional DCT-domain feature vector is used to train an SVM classifier. The feature vector is composed of mean of the absolute values of 64 DCT subbands. The main advantage of the proposed technique is a significant reduction in the feature dimension as compared to the state-of-the-art techniques. This reduction is achieved with a negligible drop in the detection accuracy. Experimental analysis demonstrates that the proposed technique can classify different types of anti-forensically modified images with a very good accuracy. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Discrete Cosine Transform;  Image Forensics;  JPEG Compression Artifacts;  Multi-class Classification;  SVM Classifier\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 390\
Ravan, J., Thanuja\
57210342025;57210341662;\
Image forgery Detection against Forensic Image Digital Tampering\
(2018) Proceedings of the International Conference on Computational Techniques, Electronics and Mechanical Systems, CTEMS 2018, art. no. 8769121, pp. 315-321. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85070417558&doi=10.1109%2fCTEMS.2018.8769121&partnerID=40&md5=06cb08152df154856bf13adf1d6435cb\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CTEMS.2018.8769121\
AFFILIATIONS: Research Center, Visvesvaraya Technical University, Belagavi, Karnataka, India\
ABSTRACT: The modern age era of revolutionary digital advances which has enabled us in advance digital information. Development of numerous digital forensic methodologies for authentication has been rivaled by equal number of anti-forensic operations. However, many of them subsequently leave behind numerous forensically detectable traces. Forgery using copy paste is most used tool used in images in unruly and often criminal acts. Presented paper gives a detailed architecture for copy-and-move forgery detection, using Dyadic Wavelet SIFT descriptors and DoG (Difference of Gaussian) features. For feature matching RANSAC has generated acceptable accuracy and faster operation. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: blind image forensics.;  copy-move forgery;  image fakery detection;  image falsification;  image tampering detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 391\
Tiwari, M., Gupta, B.\
35580011000;55433594000;\
Efficient PRNU extraction using joint edge-preserving filtering for source camera identification and verification\
(2018) Proceedings of 2018 IEEE Applied Signal Processing Conference, ASPCON 2018, art. no. 8748857, pp. 14-18. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85069199954&doi=10.1109%2fASPCON.2018.8748857&partnerID=40&md5=f208e09e486845799007c69bf82275be\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ASPCON.2018.8748857\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Natural Science, PDPM Indian Institute of Information Technology, Design Manufacturing, Jabalpur, MP, 482005, India\
ABSTRACT: The photo response non-uniformity (PRNU) of a digital image is a kind of sensor pattern noise (SPN) by which one can distinguish the gadget which is utilized to take the image. It has been extensively used for source camera identification and verification in the past decade. The useful data that the SPN passes makes it unique, and thus sensible for perceiving the source camera and recognizing image forgeries. In any case, the PRNU extraction process is unavoidably looked with the contamination of image dependent features and furthermore other non-unique artifacts. In this work, we have presented joint edge preserving filtering technique for 
\f3 \uc0\u928 
\f0  extraction. The proposed method is computationally efficient and PRNU separated by utilizing the proposed method contains an insignificant measure of scene details of the image. Hence the PRNU obtained from the proposed method is more efficient for source camera identification. Exploratory outcomes on publicly available database by different cameras have demonstrated a significant gain acquired and the predominance of the proposed framework over related best in class frameworks. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital image forensics;  Joint edge preserving de-nosing filter;  Photo response non-uniformity;  Source camera identification;  Source camera verification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 392\
Bakas, J., Bashaboina, A.K., Naskar, R.\
57203821101;57209347688;53866980700;\
MPEG Double Compression Based Intra-Frame Video Forgery Detection using CNN\
(2018) Proceedings - 2018 International Conference on Information Technology, ICIT 2018, art. no. 8724275, pp. 221-226. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85067428367&doi=10.1109%2fICIT.2018.00053&partnerID=40&md5=0839f1c22582c9623cc4de46a284eb06\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICIT.2018.00053\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, National Institute of Technology, Rourkela, 769008, India\
ABSTRACT: Double compression detection is a predominant problem in video forensics. Due to the rapid growth of image/video editing software and multimedia sharing websites, it has become extremely easy to manipulate multimedia data, many times done with malicious intention. One such problem is an intentional modification to videos by carrying out recompression of its (selective) frames. In this paper, we present a forensic solution to detect double compression based forgery in MPEG videos (one of the most commonly used video formats in today's date) as well as to localize the exact region of tampering within the frames. We present a deep learning architecture for the above, which utilizes the video I-frames and the artifacts introduced into those due to double quantization. The proposed method is evaluated using a publicly available standard video dataset to demonstrate the experimental results. Our experimental results prove the efficiency of the proposed technique. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Convolutional Neural Network;  Deep Learning;  Double compression detection;  Intra-frame video forgery;  Video forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 393\
Horsman, G., Page, H., Beveridge, P.\
55366646200;55863419000;6602287278;\
A preliminary assessment of latent fingerprint evidence damage on mobile device screens caused by digital forensic extractions\
(2018) Digital Investigation, 27, pp. 47-56. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85059313893&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.10.002&partnerID=40&md5=5c86f7478201928a5256ea55a97c02f2\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.10.002\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Science, Engineering & Design, Teesside University, Middlesbrough, North Yorkshire, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Mobile devices continue to feature heavily in criminal investigations and often bear multiple forms of potentially relevant evidence. In the context of identifying the owner of a device, both latent fingerprints and resident digital data may be crucial to investigations, yet each individual process may have a detrimental impact on the other. Fingerprint development techniques are known to impact device hardware, whilst digital extraction processes can destroy latent prints. This article examines the impact of mobile device extraction procedures on resident screen fingerprints. The impact of bare fingered, cotton gloved, latex gloved and stylus screen press and swipes on latent print destruction are examined. Results indicate that all forms of interaction cause print damage, but to a variable extent. Provisional device handling recommendations are offered. \'a9 2018 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Crime;  Digital forensics;  Fingerprints;  Investigation;  Mobile device forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 394\
Oliveira, M., Amorim, A.\
57217268872;57205507230;\
Microbial forensics: new breakthroughs and future prospects\
(2018) Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology, 102 (24), pp. 10377-10391. Cited 30 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85054862461&doi=10.1007%2fs00253-018-9414-6&partnerID=40&md5=3b25abef3f3707c8a353c91dc1cb4f98\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s00253-018-9414-6\
AFFILIATIONS: i3S - Instituto de Investiga\'e7\'e3o e Inova\'e7\'e3o em Sa\'fade, Universidade do Porto, Porto, 4200-135, Portugal; \
Ipatimup - Instituto de Patologia e Imunologia Molecular da Universidade do Porto, Rua J\'falio Amaral de Carvalho,45, Porto, 4200-135, Portugal; \
Departamento de Biologia, Faculdade de Ci\'eancias, Universidade do Porto, Porto, 4200-135, Portugal\
ABSTRACT: Recent advances in genetic data generation, through massive parallel sequencing (MPS), storage and analysis have fostered significant progresses in microbial forensics (or forensic microbiology). Initial applications in circumstances of biocrime, bioterrorism and epidemiology are now accompanied by the prospect of using microorganisms (i) as ancillary evidence in criminal cases; (ii) to clarify causes of death (e.g., drownings, toxicology, hospital-acquired infections, sudden infant death and shaken baby syndromes); (iii) to assist human identification (skin, hair and body fluid microbiomes); (iv) for geolocation (soil microbiome); and (v) to estimate postmortem interval (thanatomicrobiome and epinecrotic microbial community). When compared with classical microbiological methods, MPS offers a diverse range of advantages and alternative possibilities. However, prior to its implementation in the forensic context, critical efforts concerning the elaboration of standards and guidelines consolidated by the creation of robust and comprehensive reference databases must be undertaken. \'a9 2018, Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Criminal investigation;  Genetics;  Massive parallel sequencing;  Microbial forensics;  Microbiome\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 395\
Marshall, A.M., Paige, R.\
56232084800;7004563809;\
Requirements in digital forensics method definition: Observations from a UK study\
(2018) Digital Investigation, 27, pp. 23-29. Cited 12 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85053864826&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.09.004&partnerID=40&md5=6a643288676f95ec2a467c499f886188\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.09.004\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Computer Science, University of York, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: During a project to examine the potential usefulness of evidence of tool verification as part of method validation for ISO 17025 accreditation, the authors have examined requirements statements in several digital forensic method descriptions and tools. They have identified that there is an absence of clear requirements statements in the methods and a reluctance or inability to disclose requirements on the part of tool producers. This leads to a break in evidence of correctness for both tools and methods, resulting in incomplete validation. They compare the digital forensics situation with other ISO 17025 accredited organisations, both forensic and non-forensic, and propose a means to close the gap and improve validation. They also review existing projects which may assist with their proposed solution. \'a9 2018 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forensic tool development;  ISO 17025;  ISO 27041;  Method validation;  Quality standards;  Tool verification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 396\
Zhaofeng, M., Ming, J.\
57212727143;54079891200;\
Secure and efficient DRM watermark algorithm of forensics in mobile internet\
(2018) Eurasip Journal on Image and Video Processing, 2018 (1), art. no. 69, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85051115624&doi=10.1186%2fs13640-018-0307-5&partnerID=40&md5=17829dc3104a26d88a08d93bd5e69dc9\
\
DOI: 10.1186/s13640-018-0307-5\
AFFILIATIONS: Information Security Center of Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing, 100876, China; \
Audio and Video department, The Third Research Institute of China Electronics Technology Group Corporation, Beijing, 100015, China\
ABSTRACT: With the development of mobile Internet technology, the characteristic of easy editing, transmitting, and forging the digital media bring great challenges in authenticity of multimedia. Due to that, the focus on the digital forensics and identification, such as source identification, content authentication, and information integrity, have become an important research content in the field network security, forensic science and other fields. To solve this problem, in this paper, we proposed an image digital rights management scheme for mobile Internet forensics based on watermark with high-level security and traceability. In this scheme, we embed some user-identity-related and device-related information of mobile phones as a source identification of snapped photos and stored pictures; once the forwarded image data from mobile phones are misused such as spreading the image data on Internet without authorization, especially the confidential image data, we can trace the misuse responsibility by extracting the mobile phone data embedded in the mobile photos. Finally, we evaluate the proposed security and efficiency of the DRM watermark scheme for mobile Internet, a large amount of experiments manifest the proposed watermark scheme is robust, secure, and efficient for the protection and misuse tracing of mobile image data. \'a9 2018, The Author(s).\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital rights management;  Forensics;  Watermark\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 397\
Salim, A.S., Abdalla, A.A.M.\
57201214340;57203267801;\
Application of Adobe\'ae Photoshop\'ae CC 2018 for identifying color laser printer source of Xerox\'ae brand\
(2018) Egyptian Journal of Forensic Sciences, 8 (1), art. no. 46, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85051071378&doi=10.1186%2fs41935-018-0076-4&partnerID=40&md5=6494325b8598c736a6c89059fe179b7a\
\
DOI: 10.1186/s41935-018-0076-4\
AFFILIATIONS: Forgery and Counterfeiting Researches Department, Forensic Medicine authority, Ministry of Justice, Cairo, 11381, Egypt; \
Faculty of Science, Physics and Chemistry department, Electronic division, Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt\
ABSTRACT: Background: In a field of digital forensic science, we have struggled to prove and keep any evidence in its most original form. The seized source of color laser printers in forgery crimes has been still an awkward issue today in digital forensic labs for identification. Till now no any scientific method has reported at all over the world that could be applied to make a success in an investigation for identifying the source of color laser printers with accuracy ratio 100%. Method: We have explored an advanced security feature that has embedded in the color laser printouts of Xerox\'ae brand. Adobe\'ae Photoshop\'ae CC 2018 has used as an indirect and nondestructive tool for our work. Results: In this study, we could detect the hidden information (steganalysis) embedded in the color laser printouts of Xerox\'ae brand candidate. Therefore, we could extract the clear precise machine identification code pattern corresponding to each color laser printer of Xerox\'ae brand selected. Conclusion: Via Adobe\'ae Photoshop\'ae CC 2018, we could successfully track all active security features characteristic of the color laser printers of Xerox\'ae brand. Moreover, we could detect the identity and uniqueness of each color laser printer which had studied with an\'a0accuracy ratio reached to a\'a0hundred percent. \'a9 2018, The Author(s).\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Adobe Photoshop;  Color laser printer steganography;  Digital forensic science;  Embedded security features\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 398\
Das, T.K.\
7201461588;\
Anti-forensics of JPEG compression detection schemes using approximation of DCT coefficients\
(2018) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 77 (24), pp. 31835-31854. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85048363230&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-018-6170-7&partnerID=40&md5=142e9376c7d616cc6c41999570f088bc\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-018-6170-7\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Applications, National Institute of Technology Raipur, Raipur, India\
ABSTRACT: Here we propose a unique anti-forensics method using the approximation of DCT coefficients for security analysis of forensics schemes that are dependent on the distortions produced by JPEG compression to detect forgery. Approximation process first builds a model of the AC component of DCT coefficients. Then it uses that model to restore the values of the DCT coefficients. The beauty of the proposed anti-forensics technique is that one can specify any distortion measure and it is capable of minimizing that distortion as long as the specified distortion is produced by JPEG compression or the distortion is measurable in the DCT domain. We specifically mount our anti-forensics technique on three leading JPEG compression detection schemes (Fan and de Queiroz, IEEE Trans Image Process 12(2):230\'96235, 2003; Lai and B\'f6hme 2011) to highlight their weaknesses. Though these schemes are based on three different distortions metrics, still we could achieve 100 % missed detection rate for JPEG images having quality factor more than equal to 60 %. Our analysis raises a serious question regarding the robustness and security of JPEG artifact based forgery detection schemes. \'a9 2018, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Approximation;  JPEG compression detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 399\
Cozzolino, D., Verdoliva, L.\
55440439700;6506573720;\
Camera-based image forgery localization using convolutional neural networks\
(2018) European Signal Processing Conference, 2018-September, art. no. 8553581, pp. 1372-1376. Cited 20 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85059822063&doi=10.23919%2fEUSIPCO.2018.8553581&partnerID=40&md5=1b6d4cf089bd99584a917e0e4bdd1e15\
\
DOI: 10.23919/EUSIPCO.2018.8553581\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical Engineering and Information Technology, University Federico II of Naples, Naples, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Camera fingerprints are precious tools for a number of image forensics tasks. A well-known example is the photo response non-uniformity (PRNU) noise pattern, a powerful device fingerprint. Here, to address the image forgery localization problem, we rely on noiseprint, a recently proposed CNN-based camera model fingerprint. The CNN is trained to minimize the distance between same-model patches, and maximize the distance otherwise. As a result, the noiseprint accounts for model-related artifacts just like the PRNU accounts for device-related non-uniformities. However, unlike the PRNU, it is only mildly affected by residuals of high-level scene content. The experiments show that the proposed noiseprint-based forgery localization method improves over the PRNU-based reference. \'a9 EURASIP 2018.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Convolutional neural networks;  Image forensics;  PRNU\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 400\
Luo, Y., Zi, H., Zhang, Q., Kang, X.\
57205378009;57205378701;57195138025;7102354750;\
Anti-forensics of JPEG compression using generative adversarial networks\
(2018) European Signal Processing Conference, 2018-September, art. no. 8553259, pp. 952-956. Cited 15 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85059816346&doi=10.23919%2fEUSIPCO.2018.8553259&partnerID=40&md5=ed11e077d7c916b93bab49eae82481cf\
\
DOI: 10.23919/EUSIPCO.2018.8553259\
AFFILIATIONS: Guangdong Key Laboratory of Information security Technology, School of Data and Computer Science, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China\
ABSTRACT: JPEG compression is one of the most popular image compression methods. The manipulation history of JPEG compression provides evidence of operational information about the device or software utilized to generate an image. Besides, JPEG compression introduces complex compression artifacts, particularly the blocking artifacts, ringing effects and blurring, which lower the image visual quality. Therefore, erasing the traces left by JPEG compression is of great importance. To solve this problem, we present a JPEG compression anti-forensic method adopting the framework of generative adversarial networks (GANs). This architecture consists of a generator and a discriminator, where the generator can automatically learn how to hide the traces left by JPEG compression during the optimization process against the discriminator. Through extensive experiments, it is demonstrated that the anti-forensically modified images generated by our method can deceive the existing JPEG compression detectors and have very good visual quality. \'a9 EURASIP 2018.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Generative adversarial networks;  JPEG compression\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 401\
Li, Q., Wang, R., Xu, D.\
56158856200;7405340909;7404074245;\
An inter-frame forgery detection algorithm for surveillance video\
(2018) Information (Switzerland), 9 (12), art. no. 301, . Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85059029388&doi=10.3390%2finfo9120301&partnerID=40&md5=793ca3dc857110afdd3bcde85665ab8b\
\
DOI: 10.3390/info9120301\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Information Engineering, Ningbo Dahongying University, Ningbo, 315175, China; \
CKC Software Laboratory, Ningbo University, Ningbo, 315211, China; \
School of Electronics and Information Engineering, Ningbo University of Technology, Ningbo, 315211, China\
ABSTRACT: Surveillance systems are ubiquitous in our lives, and surveillance videos are often used as significant evidence for judicial forensics. However, the authenticity of surveillance videos is difficult to guarantee. Ascertaining the authenticity of surveillance video is an urgent problem. Inter-frame forgery is one of the most common ways for video tampering. The forgery will reduce the correlation between adjacent frames at tampering position. Therefore, the correlation can be used to detect tamper operation. The algorithm is composed of feature extraction and abnormal point localization. During feature extraction, we extract the 2-D phase congruency of each frame, since it is a good image characteristic. Then calculate the correlation between the adjacent frames. In the second phase, the abnormal points were detected by using k-means clustering algorithm. The normal and abnormal points were clustered into two categories. Experimental results demonstrate that the scheme has high detection and localization accuracy. \'a9 2018 by the authors.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: 2-D phase congruency;  Inter-frame forgery;  K-means clustering;  Surveillance video;  Video forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 402\
Ajit, A.P., George, A., Mary, L.\
57212722275;57193698490;6602205982;\
I-Vectors for Forensic Automatic Speaker Recognition\
(2018) 2018 International CET Conference on Control, Communication, and Computing, IC4 2018, art. no. 8530898, pp. 284-287. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85058225034&doi=10.1109%2fCETIC4.2018.8530898&partnerID=40&md5=212e5ac89a8eceb3a5b84acc2c375c1a\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CETIC4.2018.8530898\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Technology, Kottayam, India; \
Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, Government Engineering College Idukki, Idukki, India\
ABSTRACT: Forensic Automatic Speaker Recognition (FASR) will determine whether a voice recording (trace) in query belongs to a particular individual (suspected speaker). The aftereffect of voice disguise, Voice over IP (VoIP), and channel mismatches are important issues to be addressed in FASR. I-vectors have recently gained prominence in text-independent speaker verification, which can cope well with the above mentioned variability in speech. For this work, speech from 18 speakers through close speaking microphone, masked microphone, VoIP and telephone channel is collected to create a database. Utilizing this database, a speaker recognition framework using I-vectors is implemented and evaluated. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Channel mismatch;  FASR;  I-vector;  Voice disguise;  VoIP\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 403\
Bria, R., Retnowardhani, A., Utama, D.N.\
57205020357;55577317400;55016662200;\
Five Stages of Database Forensic Analysis: A Systematic Literature Review\
(2018) Proceedings of 2018 International Conference on Information Management and Technology, ICIMTech 2018, art. no. 8528177, pp. 246-250. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85058335964&doi=10.1109%2fICIMTech.2018.8528177&partnerID=40&md5=210872d7fcd4bdf80db735197bd84150\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICIMTech.2018.8528177\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Department of Electrical Engineering, Mercu Buana University, Jakarta, Indonesia; \
Information Systems Management Department, Bina Nusantara University, Master of Information Systems Management, Jakarta, 11480, Indonesia\
ABSTRACT: Database forensic analysis (DFA) is a forensic method that is performed on the database to prevent illegal access to existing database security systems. DFA is going to detect a violation and collect evidence related to the interruption. Various techniques are theoretically operated to touch up data/files after analyzing content of existing data which influencing a metadata damage. This paper systematically reviews DFA techniques that have been exploited in previous studies. The systematic literature review started from selecting a theme of issue, taking a scope of review, choosing online-database to conduct searches, searching and finding literatures, and the last step is reviewing the screened literatures. The purpose of paper can summarize such an analytical technique as a new method that can be utilized for further investigation. This research methodically searched starts from 2015 to 2017 data and obtained from two literature databases namely ScienceDirect and ieeexplore. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: carving;  database forensic;  digital forensic;  forensic analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 404\
\'d6lveck\'fd, M., Gabri\'9aka, D.\
57216270426;55807885500;\
Wiping Techniques and Anti-Forensics Methods\
(2018) SISY 2018 - IEEE 16th International Symposium on Intelligent Systems and Informatics, Proceedings, art. no. 8524756, pp. 127-131. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85057972873&doi=10.1109%2fSISY.2018.8524756&partnerID=40&md5=e760c4ec1cf3feaa1f8640c2e55e77d7\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SISY.2018.8524756\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Applied Informatics, University of SS. Cyril and Methodius, Trnava, SK-917 01, Slovakia\
ABSTRACT: This paper presents a theoretical background of main research activity focused on the evaluation of wiping/erasure standards which are mostly implemented in specific software products developed and programming for data wiping. The information saved in storage devices often consists of metadata and trace data. Especially but not only these kinds of data are very important in the process of forensic analysis because they sometimes contain information about interconnection on another file. Most people saving their sensitive information on their local storage devices and later they want to secure erase these files but usually there is a problem with this operation. Secure file destruction is one of many Anti-forensics methods. The outcome of this paper is to define the future research activities focused on the establishment of the suitable digital environment. This environment will be prepared for testing and evaluating selected wiping standards and appropriate eraser software. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 405\
Suma, G.S., Dija, S., Pillai, A.T.\
56905356200;37012509900;57194407669;\
Forensic Analysis of Google Chrome Cache Files\
(2018) 2017 IEEE International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Computing Research, ICCIC 2017, art. no. 8524272, . Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85057955468&doi=10.1109%2fICCIC.2017.8524272&partnerID=40&md5=b5b2bc0b24d6d76023d62160e00c3388\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICCIC.2017.8524272\
AFFILIATIONS: Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, Thiruvananthapuram, India; \
Govt. Polytechnic College Punalur, Kollam, India\
ABSTRACT: Internet Forensics has become an indispensable part of Cyber Forensics. This is due to the rapid growth in the number of cybercrimes which are related to Internet usage. These crimes vary from malware crimes to crimes related to use of Social Media, banking transactions and other financial services. In these type of crimes, the browser files which are generated by different web browsers, should be analyzed. Among the different artifacts left by web browsers, the most relevant file in forensic investigation is the cache file as it stores important cyber forensics information of frequently visited websites. Investigators can obtain a clear picture of visited websites, loaded pictures and other objects using the information stored in the cache files. The paper describes the structure of cache files created by Google Chrome in detail. The results obtained in this way can provide forensically sound information in cybercrime investigation. Advanced analysis of Java scripts and other objects obtained in this way provide crucial evidence in proving different types of cybercrimes including malware crimes. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Browser Forensics;  Cache File;  Cyber Forensics;  Google Chrome;  Internet Forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 406\
Dija, S., Indu, S., Sajeena, A., Vidhya, J.A.\
37012509900;57217732122;57217929664;35191164700;\
A Framework for Browser Forensics in Live Windows Systems\
(2018) 2017 IEEE International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Computing Research, ICCIC 2017, art. no. 8524412, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85057945737&doi=10.1109%2fICCIC.2017.8524412&partnerID=40&md5=4cd7242e0de17594e211372b592e92f9\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICCIC.2017.8524412\
AFFILIATIONS: C-DAC Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, Thiruvananthapuram, India\
ABSTRACT: Live Forensics is the process of collecting forensically sound evidence from a running computer system. In cyber forensics, live forensics is very important which is to be done in order to collect volatile information. Live Forensics is done if the computer is in the running mode at the scene of crime because these information will be lost forever once the system is switched off. Also, this is the preferred option for forensically analyzing mission critical dedicated servers. During Live Forensics, it should be ensured that only relevant data is acquired from the Suspect's hard disk. This is done to minimize the tampering made in the Original Evidence. Browser files contain important information related to Suspects' Internet activities and hence its analysis is indispensable in both offline and live forensic analysis. Here, a framework which can do both the acquisition and analysis of Browser Files is discussed. The acquisition tool in the framework is capable of forensically retrieving the browser files from the Suspect's machine. The analysis tool analyzes the browser files acquired to find forensically relevant information related to Internet Activities. Browser Forensics of commonly used web browsers is described in the paper. This framework enables the investigators to find out crucial hints regarding the crime. This may help in proving whether the Internet activities related to the reported cybercrime had happened in the Suspect's machine. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Browser Forensics;  Internet Forensics;  Master File Table;  New Technology File System\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 407\
van Beek, H.\
22434224000;\
A forensic visual aid: Traces versus knowledge\
(2018) Science and Justice, 58 (6), pp. 425-432. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85053105357&doi=10.1016%2fj.scijus.2018.08.006&partnerID=40&md5=751fde65988891849c8b772f841dd87b\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.scijus.2018.08.006\
AFFILIATIONS: Netherlands Forensic Institute, Ministry of Justice and Security, Netherlands\
ABSTRACT: In this paper, I introduce the Forensic Field Map (FFM) that provides a two-dimensional view on the forensic field. This field is by definition very broad, encompassing a wide range of scientific areas and activities. The forensic work that supports solving criminal cases ranges from recognizing and preserving traces at crime scenes to explaining forensic results as expert witness in court. This goes hand in hand with the development of scientifically based methods and tooling as well as legal, forensic and laboratory procedures. Although the FFM came into being while developing a (visual) framework for digital forensic investigations, the framework turned out to be generically applicable to other forensic disciplines. \'a9 2018 The Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forensic Field Map;  Forensic investigation;  Forensic knowledge;  Unifying framework;  Visual aid\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 408\
Jin, X., Su, Y., Zou, L., Zhang, C., Jing, P., Song, X.\
57193447375;55797981700;55346583800;10640209400;56971244300;57001779600;\
Video logo removal detection based on sparse representation\
(2018) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 77 (22), pp. 29303-29322. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85047207673&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-018-5959-8&partnerID=40&md5=a2d8db1d5e0a3fb68f3895bbeae62fd5\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-018-5959-8\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electrical and Information Engineering, Tianjin University, Tianjin, China; \
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada; \
School of Electrical Engineering and Information, Southwest Petroleum University, Chengdu, China; \
School of Computer Science and Technology, Shandong University, Jinan, China\
ABSTRACT: With the popularity of multimedia editing tools, more and more forged multimedia content appeared on the network. Thus, the legal authorities need novel techniques to distinguish copyright infringements from a large number of videos on the Internet. Since logo removal is a common editing operation during unauthorized reproduction, logo removal detection is often equivalent to copyright infringements detection to some extent. In this paper, we proposed a video forensics framework for logo removal detection. Our framework mainly contains two stages: the removal traces detection and the removal region location. In the first stage, we use sparse representation to show the difference between the tampered areas and the original areas in sparsity. In the second stage, spatial priors and temporal correlations are used to refine the location of the removal regions. Finally, a spatiotemporal suspected region can obviously show the edited regions. The proposed method is validated on our video logo removal dataset by extensive experiments, showing promising results. \'a9 2018, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Logo removal operation;  Sparse representation;  Video forensics;  Video inpainting detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 409\
Singh, A., Singh, G., Singh, K.\
57203296086;57209908810;26635862000;\
A Markov based image forgery detection approach by analyzing CFA artifacts\
(2018) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 77 (21), pp. 28949-28968. Cited 16 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85046763663&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-018-6075-5&partnerID=40&md5=8e4dab4fad352fe6428d77408217cdd8\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-018-6075-5\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Patiala, Punjab, India\
ABSTRACT: The image acquisition device, the light is filtered through a Color Filter Array (CFA), where each pixel captures only one color (from Red, Green, and Blue), while others are calibrated. This process is known as interpolation process, and the artifacts introduced are called CFA or interpolation artifacts. The structure of these artifacts in the image is disturbed while a forgery is introduced in an image. In this paper, a high-order statistical approach is proposed to detect the inconsistencies in the artifacts of different parts of the image to expose any forgery present. The Markov Transition Probability Matrix (MTPM) is employed to develop various features that will detect the presence or absence of CFA artifacts in a particular region of the image. The Markov random process is applied because it provides an enhanced efficiency and reduced computational complexity for the forgery detection model. The algorithm is tested on 2 \'d7 2 pixel block of the image which provides the results of a fine quality. There is no prior information of the location of the forged region of the image. The algorithm is tested on various images, taken from various social networking websites. The proposed forgery detection technique outperforms the existing state-of-the-art techniques for the different forgery scenarios by providing an average accuracy of 90.58%. \'a9 2018, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: CFA artifacts;  Demosaicing;  Digital image forensics;  Image forgery;  Image interpolation;  Markov random process\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 410\
Horsman, G.\
55366646200;\
\'93I couldn't find it your honour, it mustn't be there!\'94 \'96 Tool errors, tool limitations and user error in digital forensics\
(2018) Science and Justice, 58 (6), pp. 433-440. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85046144807&doi=10.1016%2fj.scijus.2018.04.001&partnerID=40&md5=a3d213a3c1cda53702d53a20ed936198\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.scijus.2018.04.001\
AFFILIATIONS: Teesside University, Middlesbrough, Tees Valley, TS1 3BX, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: The field of digital forensics maintains significant reliance on the software it uses to acquire and investigate forms of digital evidence. Without these tools, analysis of digital devices would often not be possible. Despite such levels of reliance, techniques for validating digital forensic software are sparse and research is limited in both volume and depth. As practitioners pursue the goal of producing robust evidence, they face the onerous task of both ensuring the accuracy of their tools and, their effective use. Whilst tool errors provide one issue, establishing a tool's limitations also provides an investigatory challenge leading the potential for practitioner user-error and ultimately a grey area of accountability. This article debates the problems surrounding digital forensic tool usage, evidential reliability and validation. \'a9 2018 The Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Crime;  Digital forensics;  Errors;  Software;  Tool testing;  Validation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 411\
Bayar, B., Stamm, M.C.\
55309055200;34870520200;\
Constrained Convolutional Neural Networks: A New Approach Towards General Purpose Image Manipulation Detection\
(2018) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 13 (11), pp. 2691-2706. Cited 144 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85045330770&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2018.2825953&partnerID=40&md5=1e7ba0badfb0cdf56438ca692e426948\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2018.2825953\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA  19104, United States\
ABSTRACT: Identifying the authenticity and processing history of an image is an important task in multimedia forensics. By analyzing traces left by different image manipulations, researchers have been able to develop several algorithms capable of detecting targeted editing operations. While this approach has led to the development of several successful forensic algorithms, an important problem remains: creating forensic detectors for different image manipulations is a difficult and time consuming process. Furthermore, forensic analysts need general purpose forensic algorithms capable of detecting multiple different image manipulations. In this paper, we address both of these problems by proposing a new general purpose forensic approach using convolutional neural networks (CNNs). While CNNs are capable of learning classification features directly from data, in their existing form they tend to learn features representative of an image's content. To overcome this issue, we have developed a new type of CNN layer, called a constrained convolutional layer, that is able to jointly suppress an image's content and adaptively learn manipulation detection features. Through a series of experiments, we show that our proposed constrained CNN is able to learn manipulation detection features directly from data. Our experimental results demonstrate that our CNN can detect multiple different editing operations with up to 99.97% accuracy and outperform the existing state-of-the-art general purpose manipulation detector. Furthermore, our constrained CNN can still accurately detect image manipulations in realistic scenarios where there is a source camera model mismatch between the training and testing data. \'a9 2005-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: convolutional neural networks;  deep convolutional features;  deep learning;  Image forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 412\
Freiling, F., Bajramovic, E.\
13007598800;57191837994;\
Principles of Secure Logging for Safekeeping Digital Evidence\
(2018) Proceedings - 11th International Conference on IT Security Incident Management and IT Forensics, IMF 2018, art. no. 8514833, pp. 65-75. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85057418247&doi=10.1109%2fIMF.2018.00012&partnerID=40&md5=a5f16c04946c2647b48476f756354251\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IMF.2018.00012\
AFFILIATIONS: Friedrich-Alexander-Universit, Department of Computer Science, Erlangen, D-91058, Germany; \
Framatome GmbH, Erlangen, D-91058, Germany\
ABSTRACT: The investigation of log files is an essential part of any form of IT incident management and IT forensics. In situations where logs can be manipulated, logging approaches that offer security guarantees are advisable. Within a formal system model, we describe several well-known existing approaches to secure logging and compare them with each other. Furthermore, we formalize the security requirements of secure logging approaches and systematically investigate which combinations of guarantees are achieved by the published approached under increasingly stronger attacker models. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: accuracy;  authenticity;  forensics;  incident-management;  Secure-Logging\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 413\
Koch, A., Altschaffel, R., Kiltz, S., Hildebrandt, M., Dittmann, J.\
57204823996;35197724900;23397542600;37014624400;56157419800;\
Exploring the Processing of Personal Data in Modern Vehicles - A Proposal of a Testbed for Explorative Research to Achieve Transparency for Privacy and Security\
(2018) Proceedings - 11th International Conference on IT Security Incident Management and IT Forensics, IMF 2018, art. no. 8514830, pp. 15-26. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85057357117&doi=10.1109%2fIMF.2018.00009&partnerID=40&md5=238fd03510f9fe2b7512ccb112e35abf\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IMF.2018.00009\
AFFILIATIONS: Advanced Multimedia and Security, Otto-von-Guericke-Universitat, Magdeburg, Germany\
ABSTRACT: The IT-Security of cyber-physical systems is becoming a topic of increasing interest. With the development of new attack techniques against such cyber-physical systems there is an increased need of security, incident management and forensic methods to investigate and counter these threats. In general, incident management and forensic readiness in such non-traditional scenarios is hampered by a poor understanding (along with limited means of access) of all the potential data sources / traces and incident response mechanisms available. This work aims at increasing the understanding, and therefore the capability to perform incident response and forensic investigations, in non-traditional cyber-physical systems. The approach presented in this work is demonstrated in an automotive environment as one possible example of cyber-physical systems. It takes into account the broad array of data, which modern automotive systems collect. However, this data is well hidden from the consumer and independent incident manager/forensic investigator. By achieving transparency regarding this data, forensic capabilities are increased. Hence, this work introduces a concept to locate, acquire and identify (privacy-related) data stored inside modern cars. To (partially) implement the concept, a physical testbed for explorative research on data in modern vehicles is introduced. Based on this testbed, various data streams inside the vehicle were located and successfully identified allowing to investigate their implications in privacy related incidents and the forensic process. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Data-Protection-And-Privacy;  Digital-Evidence-And-The-Law;  Non-Traditional-Forensic-Scenarios\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 414\
Al-Masri, E., Bai, Y., Li, J.\
16306430700;55295386000;35069740100;\
A fog-based digital forensics investigation framework for IoT systems\
(2018) Proceedings - 3rd IEEE International Conference on Smart Cloud, SmartCloud 2018, art. no. 8513738, pp. 196-201. Cited 18 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85057310903&doi=10.1109%2fSmartCloud.2018.00040&partnerID=40&md5=5d61c14e27b0862a7e1c6c8e1d4a45e1\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SmartCloud.2018.00040\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Engineering and Technology, University of Washington Tacoma, Tacoma, WA, United States; \
Computer Science Department, North Dakota State University, Fargo, ND, United States\
ABSTRACT: The increasing number of IoT devices is prompting the need to investigate digital forensic techniques that can be efficiently applied to solve computer-related crimes involving IoT devices. In digital forensics, it is common for forensic investigators to consider computing hardware and operating systems for forensic data acquisition. However, applying current forensic data acquisition techniques for further digital evidence analysis may not be applicable to some IoT devices. It is becoming increasingly challenging to determine what type of data should be collected from IoT devices and how traces from such devices can be leveraged by forensic investigators. In this paper, we introduce a fog-based IoT forensic framework (FoBI) that attempts to address the key challenges associated with digital IoT forensics. Throughout this paper, we discuss the overall architecture, use cases and implementation details of FoBI. We further use our FoBI framework to provide insights on improving the digital forensics processes involving IoT systems. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud computing;  Cloud forensics;  Digital forensics;  Forensic investigator;  IoT devices;  IoT paradigm\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 415 **SELECTED** SID: 25\
Liu, A., Fu, H.\
12763642400;7402948357;\
Fast Tamper Detection for Hierarchical Data in Live Cloud Forensics\
(2018) IEEE International Conference on Electro Information Technology, 2018-May, art. no. 8500169, pp. 589-594. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85057093743&doi=10.1109%2fEIT.2018.8500169&partnerID=40&md5=8a3cd77e304c8e760d877304e886685a\
\
DOI: 10.1109/EIT.2018.8500169\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Oakland University, Rochester, MI  48309-4479, United States\
ABSTRACT: For digital forensics in the era of cloud computing, it is crucial that forensic artifacts are seized from a cloud infrastructure and analyzed in a timely manner. Unfortunately, when the forensic artifacts (e.g., the filesystem of the suspect's machine) are collected and transmitted from the cloud to the forensic investigator, in the form of a data stream, the metadata that describes the structure or hierarchy of the forensic artifacts might be lost. Even though researchers demonstrated the measures for detecting malicious tampering in the streaming data, an efficient approach is still desired to pinpoint the tampered location in a data hierarchy. In this paper, we present an efficient tamper detection scheme which is capable of pinpointing the location of the tampered data in the data hierarchy quickly, without the aid of metadata. Our scheme can be easily integrated into the existing streaming forensic data transmission schemes. The evaluation demonstrates both the effectiveness and the performance of the proposed scheme. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 416\
Li, Z., Rathore, A.S., Song, C., Wei, S., Wang, Y., Xu, W.\
57203558182;57191096336;56542250700;36455449900;36555062200;55546406300;\
PrinTracker: Fingerprinting 3D printers using commodity scanners\
(2018) Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pp. 1306-1323. Cited 20 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85056877128&doi=10.1145%2f3243734.3243735&partnerID=40&md5=de12ee6b18c1f7d68cae73baed09c8eb\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3243734.3243735\
AFFILIATIONS: CSE Department, SUNY University at Buffalo, Buffalo, NY, United States; \
ECE Department, Rutgers University, Piscataway, NJ, United States; \
ECE Department, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, United States\
ABSTRACT: As 3D printing technology begins to outpace traditional manufacturing, malicious users increasingly have sought to leverage this widely accessible platform to produce unlawful tools for criminal activities. Therefore, it is of paramount importance to identify the origin of unlawful 3D printed products using digital forensics. Traditional countermeasures, including information embedding or watermarking, rely on supervised manufacturing process and are impractical for identifying the origin of 3D printed tools in criminal applications. We argue that 3D printers possess unique fingerprints, which arise from hardware imperfections during the manufacturing process, causing discrepancies in the line formation of printed physical objects. These variations appear repeatedly and result in unique textures that can serve as a viable fingerprint on associated 3D printed products. To address the challenge of traditional forensics in identifying unlawful 3D printed products, we present PrinTracker, the 3D printer identification system, which can precisely trace the physical object to its source 3D printer based on its fingerprint. Results indicate that PrinTracker provides a high accuracy using 14 different 3D printers. Under unfavorable conditions (e.g. restricted sample area, location and process), the PrinTracker can still achieve an acceptable accuracy of 92%. Furthermore, we examine the effectiveness, robustness, reliability and vulnerability of the PrinTracker in multiple real-world scenarios. \'a9 2018 Association for Computing Machinery.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Embedded systems;  Forensics;  Manufacturing security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 417\
Song, W., Yin, H., Liu, C., Song, D.\
57204727157;17436537100;55873082700;7402443870;\
DeePMEM: Learning graph neural network models for fast and robust memory forensic analysis\
(2018) Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pp. 606-618. Cited 13 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85056870044&doi=10.1145%2f3243734.3243813&partnerID=40&md5=448b0b2b0f8699ac38267bad74c4ae73\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3243734.3243813\
AFFILIATIONS: University of California, Riverside, United States; \
University of California, Berkeley, United States\
ABSTRACT: Kernel data structure detection is an important task in memory forensics that aims at identifying semantically important kernel data structures from raw memory dumps. It is primarily used to collect evidence of malicious or criminal behaviors. Existing approaches have several limitations: 1) list-traversal approaches are vulnerable to DKOM attacks, 2) robust signature-based approaches are not scalable or efficient, because it needs to search the entire memory snapshot for one kind of objects using one signature, and 3) both list-traversal and signature-based approaches all heavily rely on domain knowledge of operating system. Based on the limitations, we propose DeepMem, a graph-based deep learning approach to automatically generate abstract representations for kernel objects, with which we could recognize the objects from raw memory dumps in a fast and robust way. Specifically, we implement 1) a novel memory graph model that reconstructs the content and topology information of memory dumps, 2) a graph neural network architecture to embed the nodes in the memory graph, and 3) an object detection method that cross-validates the evidence collected from different parts of objects. Experiments show that DeepMem achieves high precision and recall rate in identify kernel objects from raw memory dumps. Also, the detection strategy is fast and scalable by using the intermediate memory graph representation. Moreover, DeepMem is robust against attack scenarios, like pool tag manipulation and DKOM process hiding. \'a9 2018 Association for Computing Machinery.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Deep Learning;  Direct Kernel Object Manipulation;  Memory Forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 418\
Vega, E.A.A., Orozco, A.L.S., Villalba, L.J.G., Hernandez-Castro, J.\
57191988871;57195496087;57192440178;12241916500;\
Digital images authentication technique based on DWT, DCT and local binary patterns\
(2018) Sensors (Switzerland), 18 (10), art. no. 3372, . Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85055317496&doi=10.3390%2fs18103372&partnerID=40&md5=8e1c272141eff2d0efddf5e07fd78f58\
\
DOI: 10.3390/s18103372\
AFFILIATIONS: Group of Analysis, Security and Systems (GASS), Department of Software Engineering and Artificial Intelligence (DISIA), Faculty of Computer Science and Engineering, Universidad Complutense de Madrid (UCM), Office 431, Calle Profesor Jos\'e9 Garc\'eda Santesmases, 9, Ciudad Universitaria, Madrid, 28040, Spain; \
School of Computing, University of Kent, Office S129A, Cornwallis South Building, Canterbury, CT2 7NF, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: In the last few years, the world has witnessed a ground-breaking growth in the use of digital images and their applications in the modern society. In addition, image editing applications have downplayed the modification of digital photos and this compromises the authenticity and veracity of a digital image. These applications allow for tampering the content of the image without leaving visible traces. In addition to this, the easiness of distributing information through the Internet has caused society to accept everything it sees as true without questioning its integrity. This paper proposes a digital image authentication technique that combines the analysis of local texture patterns with the discrete wavelet transform and the discrete cosine transform to extract features from each of the blocks of an image. Subsequently, it uses a vector support machine to create a model that allows verification of the authenticity of the image. Experiments were performed with falsified images from public databases widely used in the literature that demonstrate the efficiency of the proposed method. \'a9 2018 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital images;  Discrete cosine transforms;  Forgery detection;  Image forensics;  Images splicing;  Local pattern binary;  Support vector machines;  Wavelet transforms\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 419\
Kirmani, M.S., Banday, M.T.\
57215544940;36010467800;\
Analyzing detection avoidance of malware by process hiding\
(2018) Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Contemporary Computing and Informatics, IC3I 2018, art. no. 9007293, pp. 293-297. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85081123951&doi=10.1109%2fIC3I44769.2018.9007293&partnerID=40&md5=9f1791fbdf6da5d33f64356154f1d15f\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IC3I44769.2018.9007293\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Kashmir, Department of Electronics and Instrumentation Technology, Srinagar, India\
ABSTRACT: The fact that any program to be executed must be loaded in random access memory makes it forensically critical and target-rich search location for evidence. Digital forensic investigation is incomplete without analyzing the physical memory. Random access memory holds the insights of a running system which constitutes the plethora of information some of which is unique to it. Among other information, random access memory holds running processes and process related information maintained in well-defined data structures. The threads spawned by specific processes also reside in this memory. With the advancement in cyber-attacks, malware tends to be memory resident that is hidden from the operating system to avoid detection via security or forensic tools. Both the user space and kernel space is exploited by hidden. This paper is focused towards analyzing the techniques used by rootkits to hide their processes in the memory achieved via hooking and Direct Kernel Object Manipulation (DKOM), the working of a rootkit and its detection. Having the active malicious processes hidden leads to incorrect results of the forensic investigation, rendering it unacceptable before court of law. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Direct Kernel Object Manipulation;  Hidden Processes;  Hooking;  Memory Forensics;  Rootkits\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 420\
Bhardwaj, D., Pankajakshan, V.\
57190293585;6506890403;\
A JPEG blocking artifact detector for image forensics\
(2018) Signal Processing: Image Communication, 68, pp. 155-161. Cited 12 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85051023332&doi=10.1016%2fj.image.2018.07.011&partnerID=40&md5=562a348669a3241299075c486ba8ee04\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.image.2018.07.011\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee, Roorkee, 247667, India\
ABSTRACT: Detection of JPEG blocking artifacts in an image plays an important role in the forensic analysis. JPEG anti-forensic techniques try to remove these artifacts to disguise forensic detectors. This paper proposes a new technique for detecting JPEG blocking artifacts. Unlike in uncompressed images, when a JPEG compressed image is cropped, there is a change in the inter-block correlation of DCT coefficients due to the shifting of blocking artifacts. We propose to use this change in correlation to detect the blockiness in an image. Experiments conducted on a large set of images show that the proposed detector outperforms the existing detectors in detecting blocking artifacts in anti-forensically modified images. \'a9 2018 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Blocking artifacts;  Image forensics;  JPEG compression\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 421\
Freiling, F., Gro\'df, T., Latzo, T., M\'fcller, T., Palutke, R.\
13007598800;57197744935;57203224495;36096917200;57193628492;\
Advances in Forensic Data Acquisition\
(2018) IEEE Design and Test, 35 (5), art. no. 8424163, pp. 63-74. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85050980796&doi=10.1109%2fMDAT.2018.2862366&partnerID=40&md5=cd62b5b9d4185612a52483ccaad32940\
\
DOI: 10.1109/MDAT.2018.2862366\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Friedrich-Alexander-Universit\'e4t Erlangen-N\'fcrnberg (FAU), Erlangen, 91054, Germany\
ABSTRACT: Editor's note: You all know this from watching CSI: When a crime is committed, usually some form of digital evidence is left on devices such as computers, mobile phones, or the navigation system of a car a suspect has used. Indeed, law enforcement agencies are regularly interested in data from personal devices to find evidence, guide investigations, or even act as proof in a court of law. This tutorial article by Felix Freiling et al. mentions the San Bernadino case as a prominent example. But how do police investigators go about accessing this evidence? Is what is shown on TV realistic? Whereas, in times of classical hard disks, accessing data was quite easy due to the non- volatility of the memory device. However, this is getting increasingly difficult because of developing technologies like SSDs, other forms of flash storage, and, in particular, for volatile memory such as RAM, with the major problem being to read out data while guarding "authenticity." In the past ten years, there has been some substantial development in the area of forensic data acquisition, which is summarized by the article. It gives clear indications of what currently can be technically done and what cannot be done by police investigators. So, if you watch CSI again and the cops need to access some digital evidence, you can tell truth from fiction. - J\'fcrgen Teich, Friedrich-Alexander-Universit\'e4t Erlangen-N\'fcrnberg. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: D Software/Software Engineering K.4.1.a Abuse and crime involving computers;  D.4 Operating Systems;  D.4.6 Security and Privacy Protection;  K Computing Milieux;  K.4 Computers and Societyl;  K.4.1 Public Policy Issues\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 422\
Pichan, A., Lazarescu, M., Soh, S.T.\
56671413400;7005603632;7005883790;\
Towards a practical cloud forensics logging framework\
(2018) Journal of Information Security and Applications, 42, pp. 18-28. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85050865359&doi=10.1016%2fj.jisa.2018.07.008&partnerID=40&md5=a5771fb3437360151b8e420c4af96820\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.jisa.2018.07.008\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computing, Curtin University, Kent Street, Bentley, Perth, WA  6102, Australia\
ABSTRACT: This paper exposes and explore the practical issues with the usability of log artefacts for digital forensics in cloud computing. Logs, providing detailed events of actions on a time scale have been a prime forensic artefact. However collection of logs for analysis, from a cloud computing environment is complex and challenging task, primarily due to the volatility, multi-tenancy, authenticity and physical storage locations of logs, which often results in jurisdictional challenges too. Diverse nature of logs, such as network logs, system logs, database logs and application logs produces additional complexity in the collection and analysis for investigative purposes. In addition there is no commonality in log architecture between cloud service providers, nor the log information fully meets the specific needs of forensic practitioners. In this paper we present a practical log architecture framework, analyse it from the perspective and business needs of forensic practitioners. We prove the framework on an ownCloud - a widely used open source platform. The log architecture has been assessed by validating it against the Association of Chief Police Officers Good Practice Guide for Computer-Based Electronic Evidence guidelines. Further validation has been done against the National Institute of Standards and Technology published report on Cloud Computing Forensic Challenges, i.e., NISTIR 8006. Our work helps the forensic examiners and law enforcement agencies in establishing confidence in log artefacts and easy interpretation of logs by presenting it in a user friendly way. Our work also helps the investigators to build a collective chain of evidence as well as the Cloud Service Providers to provision forensics enabled logging. \'a9 2018 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud computing;  Cloud forensics;  Cloud service provider;  Cloud service user;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Logging\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 423\
Khan, R.M., Iqbal, W., Amjad, M.F., Abbas, H., Afzal, H., Rauf, A., Pasha, M.\
57201718308;56102434000;55646450900;57221959316;34771183700;57212598088;14060831800;\
Forensic investigation to detect forgeries in ASF files of contemporary IP cameras\
(2018) Journal of Supercomputing, 74 (10), pp. 5060-5081. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85045907146&doi=10.1007%2fs11227-018-2377-7&partnerID=40&md5=eabf1d7dc9ed1f14cecad6ed2f5b097f\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11227-018-2377-7\
AFFILIATIONS: National University of Sciences and Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan; \
Bahauddin Zakariya University, Multan, Pakistan\
ABSTRACT: Recent years have seen tremendous increase in crime and terrorism all over the world which has necessitated continuous surveillance of public spaces, commercial entities and residential areas. CCTV cameras are an integral part of any modern surveillance system and have evolved significantly. They are a vital part of any investigation that follows a criminal or terrorism incident by providing invaluable evidence. In this paper, we show that the Advance Systems Format (ASF) file used in most IP cameras, which is also the main file containing metadata about the streaming packets, is vulnerable to forgery. This file is stored in plain text and any technically savvy person can forge it; therefore, a mechanism is needed to prevent it. To that end, we have gathered critical artifacts from an ASF file of IP cameras and carried out their forensic analysis. The analysis performed during this study demonstrates successful detection of forgery/tampering of evidence in IP cameras. \'a9 2018, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: ASF file;  ASF objects;  Digital forensics;  Forensic artifacts;  IP cameras\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 424\
Tsai, M.-J., Yuadi, I., Tao, Y.-H.\
7403551509;55645671500;57201684774;\
Decision-theoretic model to identify printed sources\
(2018) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 77 (20), pp. 27543-27587. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85045736592&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-018-5938-0&partnerID=40&md5=a629a5506239050e89a2109491314acb\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-018-5938-0\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Information Management, National Chiao Tung University, 1001 Ta-Hsueh Road, Hsin-Chu, 300, Taiwan; \
Department of Information and Library Science, Airlangga University, Jl. Airlangga 4-6, Surabaya, East Java  60286, Indonesia\
ABSTRACT: When trying to identify a printed forged document, examining digital evidence can prove to be a challenge. Over the past several years, digital forensics for printed document source identification has begun to be increasingly important which can be related to the investigation and prosecution of many types of crimes. Unlike invasive forensic approach which requires a fraction of the printed document as the specimen for verification, noninvasive forensic technique uses the optical mechanism to explore the relationship between the scanned images and the source printer. To explore the relationship between source printers and images obtained by the scanner, the proposed decision-theoretical approach utilizes image processing techniques and data exploration methods to calculate many important statistical features, including: Local Binary Pattern (LBP), Gray Level Co-occurrence Matrix (GLCM), Discrete Wavelet Transform (DWT), Spatial filters, the Wiener filter, the Gabor filter, Haralick, and SFTA features. Consequently, the proposed aggregation method intensively applies the extracted features and decision-fusion model of feature selections for classification. In addition, the impact of different paper texture or paper color for printed sources identification is also investigated. In the meantime, the up-to-date techniques based on deep learning system is developed by Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) which can learn the features automatically to solve the complex image classification problem. Both systems have been compared and the experimental results indicate that the proposed system achieve the overall best accuracy prediction for image and text input and is superior to the existing approaches. In brief, the proposed decision-theoretical model can be very efficiently implemented for real world digital forensic applications. \'a9 2018, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs);  Decision fusion;  Deep learning;  Feature filters;  Feature selection;  Scanner;  Support Vector Machines (SVM)\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 425\
Thakur, A., Jindal, N.\
57055028500;8571819900;\
Image forensics using color illumination, block and key point based approach\
(2018) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 77 (19), pp. 26033-26053. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85045268370&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-018-5836-5&partnerID=40&md5=c61a7956afced0d6c66001c2eca0f2fe\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-018-5836-5\
AFFILIATIONS: ECED, Thapar University, Patiala, India\
ABSTRACT: Every individual is keen to exhibit socialism and connectedness posting their personal photos and videos on several social websites. Thus, it has become literally easy for the onlookers to see and modify their photos and videos. Here the concept enumerates in picture as image forensics, whereby it is possible to examine the authenticity and genuineness of photograph and video into consideration. In addition to this,\'a0nowadays photograph and videos are considered as a firm and valid proof in the court room for investigation, validation and judgement. Several experts are continuously working in an image forensic field to discover and develop better techniques for the detection of forgeries in image and videos. Detection of image forgeries is done in two ways. Firstly the forged image we are already familiar with is called active forgery detection technique and secondly, where we don\'92t know the forgery, then is referred to as the passive forgery detection technique. Passive technique is incorporated to detect forgery in this paper where hybridization is used. We have used DWT, color illumination Algorithm, SLIC Algorithm; SIFT Algorithm, Correlation Coefficient Map generation Algorithm, Block Matching Threshold Algorithm and Feature Extraction Algorithm for the detection and ramifying forgeries. The novelty of the proposed hybrid technique is the use of color illumination which detect image edges and trace them correctly to detect forged region. We have tested 48 images from database and find out image forgery detection at image level with Precision = 97. 25%; Recall = 100% and F1 = 98. 53%. \'a9 2018, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Block matching threshold (BMT);  Digital signal processing (DSP);  Discrete wavelet transform (DWT);  Feature extraction (FE);  Image forgery (IF);  Simple linear iterative clustering (SLIC)\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 426\
Cattaneo, G., Roscigno, G., Ferraro Petrillo, U.\
7103222430;56165362000;57202363440;\
Improving the experimental analysis of tampered image detection algorithms for biometric systems\
(2018) Pattern Recognition Letters, 113, pp. 93-101. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85009806802&doi=10.1016%2fj.patrec.2017.01.006&partnerID=40&md5=d618df3d0a2efe54e25507cf164d62d8\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.patrec.2017.01.006\
AFFILIATIONS: Dipartimento di Informatica, Universit\'e0 degli Studi di Salerno, Via Giovanni Paolo II, 132, Fisciano (SA), I-84084, Italy; \
Dipartimento di Scienze Statistiche, Universit\'e0 di Roma \'93Sapienza\'94, P.le Aldo Moro 5, I-00185 Rome, Italy\
ABSTRACT: In this paper we deal with the experimental evaluation of tampered image detection algorithms. These algorithms aim at establishing if any manipulation has been carried out on a digital image. In detail, we focus on the evaluation of the CASIA Tampered Image Detection Evaluation (CASIA TIDE) public dataset of images, the de facto standard for evaluating these class of algorithms. Our analysis has been performed using the algorithm of Lin et al. for JPEG tampered image detection as benchmark. The results proved that the images of the dataset contain some statistical artifacts that may help the detection process. To confirm this, we first used this dataset to evaluate the performance of the Lin et al. algorithm. According to our results, the considered algorithm performs very well on this dataset. Some variants of the original algorithm have been developed expressly tuned on these artifacts. These variants performed better than their original counterpart. Then a new unbiased dataset has been assembled and a new set of experiments has been executed with these images. The results showed that the performance of the algorithm and its variants radically decreased, proving that the CASIA TIDE statistical artifacts cause interferences on the detection process. This problem is particularly important in the biometric field, because many image-based biometric systems rely on the assumption that input images have not been manipulated. Indeed, a faithful experimental evaluation must be based on unbiased input dataset to get well founded results. Therefore, the selection of a reliable image tampering detection algorithm is crucial. A preliminary version of this work has been presented in Cattaneo and Roscigno (2014) [6]. \'a9 2017 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Biometric systems;  Digital image forensics;  Image analysis;  Image integrity;  Performance analysis;  Tampered image detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 427\
Hossain, M., Karim, Y., Hasan, R.\
57221034478;57196219273;8529353900;\
FIF-IoT: A forensic investigation framework for IoT using a public digital ledger\
(2018) Proceedings - 2018 IEEE International Congress on Internet of Things, ICIOT 2018 - Part of the 2018 IEEE World Congress on Services, art. no. 8473437, pp. 33-40. Cited 33 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85055632302&doi=10.1109%2fICIOT.2018.00012&partnerID=40&md5=17935708cbfb8bb246d191aa2b700d5a\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICIOT.2018.00012\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Computer Science, University of Alabama at Birmingham, United States\
ABSTRACT: The increased deployment of Internet of Things (IoT) devices will make them targets for attacks. IoT devices can also be used as tools for committing crimes. In this regard, we propose FIF-IoT - a forensic investigation framework using a public digital ledger to find facts in criminal incidents in IoT-based systems. FIF-IoT collects interactions that take place among various IoT entities (clouds, users, and IoT devices) as evidence and store them securely as transactions in a public, distributed and decentralized blockchain network which is similar to the Bitcoin network. Hence, FIF-IoT eliminates a single entity's control over the evidence storage, avoids single-point-offailure on the storage media, and ensures high availability of evidence. FIF-IoT presents a framework that ensures integrity, confidentiality, anonymity, and non-repudiation of the evidence stored in the public digital ledger. Furthermore, FIF-IoT provides a mechanism to acquire evidence from the ledger and to verify the integrity of the obtained evidence. We present a case study of a forensic investigation to demonstrate that FIF-IoT is secure against evidence tampering. We also implement a prototype to evaluate the performance of FIF-IoT. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Attack;  Cybercrimes;  Forensics;  Investigation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 428\
Waleed, J., Abdullah, D.A., Khudhur, M.H.\
56380595300;57204880788;57204873812;\
Comprehensive Display of Digital Image Copy-Move Forensics Techniques\
(2018) International Iraqi Conference on Engineering Technology and its Applications, IICETA 2018, art. no. 8458084, pp. 155-160. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85057600199&doi=10.1109%2fIICETA.2018.8458084&partnerID=40&md5=1fa1416649f033ffa59a4bb32b641688\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IICETA.2018.8458084\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, University of Diyala, Iraq\
ABSTRACT: Digital Images considered as a natural and effective communication media to the human, owing to the swiftly and the easy manner to comprehend their content. After the appearing of the high-quality digital camera, personal computers, and sophisticated photo editing software, the manipulation becomes more common. One of the most popular tools to manipulation is a copy-move forgery (CMF) that precedes via copying portion of the digital image and paste it into another position in the same image to conceal the object behind. In this paper, a comprehensive expansion of digital image copy-move detection techniques is presented to display the appropriate techniques which are presently used. Many algorithms have been developed, algorithms based on DCT, algorithms using invariant image moments, algorithms using texture and intensity descriptors, algorithms using invariant key points, algorithms based on mutual information, and algorithms based on SVD to determine the existence of digital image forgery. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Copy-Move Forgery (CMF);  Dependent Forgery;  Image Forensics (IF);  Passive-Blind Approaches;  Tampering Traces\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 429\
Aditya, K., Grzonkowski, S., Lekhac, N.\
57210862271;15042271700;57199411126;\
Enabling Trust in Deep Learning Models: A Digital Forensics Case Study\
(2018) Proceedings - 17th IEEE International Conference on Trust, Security and Privacy in Computing and Communications and 12th IEEE International Conference on Big Data Science and Engineering, Trustcom/BigDataSE 2018, art. no. 8456041, pp. 1250-1255. Cited 12 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85054097267&doi=10.1109%2fTrustCom%2fBigDataSE.2018.00172&partnerID=40&md5=1c61583563eea364ec5166aafd0a1444\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00172\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, University of Auckland, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand; \
School of Computer Science, University College, Dublin, Ireland\
ABSTRACT: Today, the volume of evidence collected per case is growing exponentially, to address this problem forensics investigators are looking for investigation process with tools built on new technologies like big data, cloud services, and Deep Learning (DL) techniques. Consequently, the accuracy of artifacts found also relies on the performance of techniques used, especially DL models. Recently, Deep Neural Nets (DNN) have achieved state of the art performance in the tasks of classification and recognition. In the context of digital forensics, DNN has been applied in the domains of cybercrime investigation such as child abuse investigations, malware classification, steganalysis and image forensics. However, the robustness of DNN models in the context of digital forensics is never studied before. Hence, in this research, we design and implement a domain-independent Adversary Testing Framework (ATF) to test security robustness of black-box DNN's. By using ATF, we also methodically test a commercially available DNN service used in forensic investigations and bypass the detection, where published methods fail in control settings. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Adversarial Attacks;  Adversary Testing Framework;  Deep Learning;  Digital Forensics;  Testing Forensics tools\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 430\
Azab, M., Hamdy, A., Mansour, A.\
56178896200;57225333233;57213105293;\
Repoxy: Replication Proxy for Trustworthy SDN Controller Operation\
(2018) Proceedings - 17th IEEE International Conference on Trust, Security and Privacy in Computing and Communications and 12th IEEE International Conference on Big Data Science and Engineering, Trustcom/BigDataSE 2018, art. no. 8455887, pp. 55-60. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85054085965&doi=10.1109%2fTrustCom%2fBigDataSE.2018.00019&partnerID=40&md5=a2bd9823ef04ccbd943ce138f028b851\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00019\
AFFILIATIONS: City of Scientific Research and Technological Applications, Informatics Research Institute, Egypt; \
Department of Computer and Communications Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Alexandria, Egypt; \
Department of Electrical and Communication, Faculty of Engineering, Alexandria, Egypt\
ABSTRACT: Software Defined Networks (SDN) is envisaged as a future model for large-scale, elastic, and adaptive networks. However, such flexibility comes with a major cost. Relying heavily on software across the entire architecture and the centralized nature of the most important component, the controller, gave the attackers asymmetric advantage. for decades, we used to build security tools to secure the network traffic, but network components security was always protected by physical perimeters behind doors. In this paper, we present REPlication prOXY(Repoxy), a smart gateway isolating the north and southbound to enhance controller resilience, availability, and reliability in presence of attacks and also discuss our first version of the implementation. Repoxy presents a novel SDN-controller intrusion detection system to detect any malicious manipulations to the controller software. Further, Repoxy enables elasticity and high-availability for SDN controllers by facilitating southbound-oblivious seamless multi-controller replication, and handover for same network traffic. Additionally, Repoxy helps forensic analysts to easily find attack traces by exploiting Repoxy's information-rich database logging all the switch controller interactions. Results and evaluations showed the enhanced trustworthiness in the SDN network with a reasonable overhead when Repoxy is used. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forensic Analysis;  Intrusion Detection;  OpenFlow;  Proxy;  Software-Defined Networks\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 431\
Cloyd, T., Osborn, T., Ellingboe, B., Glisson, W.B., Choo, K.-K.R.\
57204012873;57204019126;57204016436;15848187400;57208540261;\
Browser Analysis of Residual Facebook Data\
(2018) Proceedings - 17th IEEE International Conference on Trust, Security and Privacy in Computing and Communications and 12th IEEE International Conference on Big Data Science and Engineering, Trustcom/BigDataSE 2018, art. no. 8456069, pp. 1440-1445. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85054068922&doi=10.1109%2fTrustCom%2fBigDataSE.2018.00200&partnerID=40&md5=875aa10ba059ef937141cc27dba56d01\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TrustCom/BigDataSE.2018.00200\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Systems and Cyber Security, College of Business, University of Texas at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, United States; \
Department of Computer Science, College of Science and Engineering Technology, Sam Houston State University, Huntsville, TX, United States\
ABSTRACT: As social media applications such as Facebook become an integral part of our society, they are also becoming an important source of information in a digital (forensics) investigation. In this paper, we examine the potential to recover artifacts of forensic interest after three popular browsers, namely: Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome and Internet Explorer, have been used to access Facebook. Findings from this research will hopefully contribute to a better understanding to mobile device and app forensics. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Browser forensics;  Digital forensics;  Facebook forensics;  Mobile app forensics;  Mobile forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 432\
Singh, A.K., Rawat, C.S.\
57202983463;42262644000;\
Performance Evaluation of Dither based Approach for Alleviation of Blocking Artifact in Image Compression\
(2018) International Conference on Current Trends in Computer, Electrical, Electronics and Communication, CTCEEC 2017, art. no. 8454969, pp. 898-903. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85054050510&doi=10.1109%2fCTCEEC.2017.8454969&partnerID=40&md5=d88395fada5625b20f41e49ad334f09b\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CTCEEC.2017.8454969\
AFFILIATIONS: EXTC, VESIT, Mumbai, India\
ABSTRACT: To identify the forgery in DCT based compressed image the two significant properties are quantization artifacts and blocking artifacts. Image compression is really real substance for specific points of view in the area of intuitive media correspondence. By utilizing Image compression we can able to use the image with lesser number of information bits. Block based discrete cosine Transform (BDCT) is long set up utilized Transform for the two static and continuous image. While we compress any sort of image by lossy type of image compression procedure at that point there will be loss of information bits, we need to encounter undesirable curios ringing and blocking artifacts and when we need to reestablish such type of image then we confront issue of obscuring of image, which is called annoying artifacts around the block of the image. Block-based Discrete Cosine Transform create blocking artifact near block boundaries in reconstructed image at high compression. In this paper, we are going to reduce blocking artifacts at medium and low level compression by using Anti-forensic dither followed by linear and nonlinear filtering. The decrease in blocking artifacts is ordered by the parameters PSNR and MSSIM We can compare these parameters for different Quantization factor, on the basis of the MATLAB simulation results for various images. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensic dither;  DCT;  Image compression;  PSNR;  Quantization factor;  SSIM\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 433\
Khan, M.K., Zakariah, M., Malik, H., Choo, K.-K.R.\
8942252200;56982947300;7006556079;57208540261;\
A novel audio forensic data-set for digital multimedia forensics\
(2018) Australian Journal of Forensic Sciences, 50 (5), pp. 525-542. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85016071355&doi=10.1080%2f00450618.2017.1296186&partnerID=40&md5=82f47e7f49d3349dd961740d7fd255db\
\
DOI: 10.1080/00450618.2017.1296186\
AFFILIATIONS: Center of Excellence in Information Assurance (CoEIA), King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; \
College of Computer and Information Sciences, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; \
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Michigan-Dearborn, Dearborn, MI, United States; \
School of Information Technology & Mathematical Sciences, University of South Australia, Adelaide, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Today, digital multimedia (audio, video, images) is a common evidential source in litigation and criminal justice proceedings, and, not surprisingly, multimedia forensics is an active research area. One particular challenge faced by multimedia forensic researchers is the lack of a comprehensive and publicly available data-set for evaluating existing and new algorithms. This paper presents a digital audio forensic data-set, designed to facilitate evaluation of audio forensic algorithms (e.g. microphone identification, acoustic environment identification and splice detection). This paper also briefly describes the data-collection settings, microphones, speakers, languages and notations used. Existing tamper-detection techniques rely on artefacts due to recording devices, codec and/or the acoustic environment in the audio in question. Experimental results show that the selected approaches achieved promising results. \'a9 2017, \'a9 2017 Australian Academy of Forensic Sciences.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: audio forensic data-set;  audio forensics;  digital authentication;  Digital forensics;  multimodality;  speech recognition\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 434\
Fern\'e1ndez, E.G., Orozco, A.L.S., Villalba, L.J.G., Hernandez-Castro, J.\
57203656032;57195496087;57192440178;12241916500;\
Digital image tamper detection technique based on spectrum analysis of CFA artifacts\
(2018) Sensors (Switzerland), 18 (9), art. no. 2804, . Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85052579659&doi=10.3390%2fs18092804&partnerID=40&md5=222517fd1320e7ed3be8dd8f64fa4725\
\
DOI: 10.3390/s18092804\
AFFILIATIONS: Group of Analysis, Security and Systems (GASS), Department of Software Engineering and Artificial Intelligence (DISIA), Faculty of Computer Science and Engineering, Universidad Complutense de Madrid (UCM), Office 431, Calle Profesor Jos\'e9 Garc\'eda Santesmases 9, Ciudad Universitaria, Madrid, 28040, Spain; \
School of Computing, University of Kent, Cornwallis South Building, Office S129A, Canterbury, CT2 7NF, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Existence of mobile devices with high performance cameras and powerful image processing applications eases the alteration of digital images for malicious purposes. This work presents a new approach to detect digital image tamper detection technique based on CFA artifacts arising from the differences in the distribution of acquired and interpolated pixels. The experimental evidence supports the capabilities of the proposed method for detecting a broad range of manipulations, e.g., copy-move, resizing, rotation, filtering and colorization. This technique exhibits tampered areas by computing the probability of each pixel of being interpolated and then applying the DCT on small blocks of the probability map. The value of the coefficient for the highest frequency on each block is used to decide whether the analyzed region has been tampered or not. The results shown here were obtained from tests made on a publicly available dataset of tampered images for forensic analysis. Affected zones are clearly highlighted if the method detects CFA inconsistencies. The analysis can be considered successful if the modified zone, or an important part of it, is accurately detected. By analizing a publicly available dataset with images modified with different methods we reach an 86% of accuracy, which provides a good result for a method that does not require previous training. \'a9 2018 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Bayer filter;  CFA artifacts;  Color filter array;  Discrete cosine transform;  Image forensics;  Image tamper detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 435\
Ahmed, S., Islam, S.\
57203576934;55148532800;\
Median filter detection through streak area analysis\
(2018) Digital Investigation, 26, pp. 100-106. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85052306316&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.08.002&partnerID=40&md5=81d74a353c68c05fb77c8e5354ee7c01\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.08.002\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Engineering, Zakir Hussain College of Engineering and Technology, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, India\
ABSTRACT: Median filter (MF) is a content preserving nonlinear filter, employed to hide traces of image manipulations, affecting the reliability of manipulation detection techniques. Thus, median filter detection is a major concern for digital image forensics (DIF) experts. The methods used for median filter detection (MFD) are computationally expensive as high dimensionality of feature vectors are employed. This paper proposes an effective method for blind median filter detection based on streaking effect of the median filter. The method offered in the paper is built on experimental observation that the percentage streak area (psa) of an image increases on repetitive median filtering of the image, the rate at which psa increases for median filtered images is different from the rate at which psa increases for unfiltered images. A feature vector based on the observation is extracted from three different image datasets UCID, BOSS and Dresden and feed to Support Vector Machine (SVM) to perform 10-fold cross validation using linear kernel. The results obtained, using a three-dimensional feature vector, demonstrates efficacy of the proposed method. \'a9 2018 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital image forensics;  Median filter detection;  Operator detection;  Repetitive median filtering;  Streaking effect;  SVM\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 436\
Gokce, Y.\
57192679439;\
The Bylock fallacy: An In-depth Analysis of the Bylock Investigations in Turkey\
(2018) Digital Investigation, 26, pp. 81-91. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85049322123&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.06.002&partnerID=40&md5=5ab34913c209e0ddbfb902745ee16689\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.06.002\
AFFILIATIONS: Bucerius Law School, Jungiusstra\'dfe 6, Hamburg, 20355, Germany\
ABSTRACT: Bylock is a secure communication app, whose availability Turkish authorities believe was exclusively allocated for the members of the G\'fclen Movement, a social and religious group which has been regarded by the regime in Turkey as a terrorist organization. The allegation of having been downloaded the Bylock app is currently a sufficient finding for the Turkish judiciary to arrest dozens of thousands of followers as well as other Turkish citizens who have had no link whatsoever with the Movement, on the basis of their alleged ties with a so-called terrorist organization. Examining the legality of the process of retrieving the Bylock metadata as well as the way the data were linked with the individual Bylock users, this article aims at informing the readers about the extent to which digital forensic principles are overlooked in Turkey via a recent case. The procedure for legally obtaining data from an electronic device and for intercepting a private communication under the Turkish Criminal Procedure Code is defined, and how the process of retrieving the Bylock data infringed that procedure is explained. The article also delves deep into what the Turkish data retention law envisages with related to the Bylock case and why the use of Bylock data in judicial proceedings contravenes the law. In a nutshell, this paper exposes the great extent to which the Turkish authorities manipulates digital data in such a way as to incriminate the critics profiled beforehand. All in all, it would be pertinent to advance that the Turkish administrative and judicial authorities joining the acquisition of the Bylock metadata, preparation of the Bylock user lists, and apprehension, detention and conviction of individuals based on those lists clearly infringe the Turkish legislation and commits serious crimes under the Turkish Penal Code. \'a9 2018 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: BTK;  Bylock;  Data protection;  Data retention;  Digital data;  Digital forensics;  Evidence;  Manipulation of data;  MIT;  The G\'fclen movement;  Turkish criminal procedural code;  Turkish IT law;  Turkish penal code\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 437\
Park, M., Kim, H., Kim, J.\
56035968000;57201190445;57203325060;\
How to decrypt PIN-Based encrypted backup data of Samsung smartphones\
(2018) Digital Investigation, 26, pp. 63-71. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85048105211&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.05.006&partnerID=40&md5=8fae47f30d55e82260acd435f4c9c0b6\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.05.006\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Financial Information Security, Kookmin University, 77 Jeongneung-Ro, Seongbuk-Gu, Seoul, 02707, South Korea; \
Department of Information Security, Cryptology and Mathematics, Kookmin University, 77 Jeongneung-Ro, Seongbuk-Gu, Seoul, 02707, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Smartphones, which are a necessity for modern people, have become important to forensic investigators, as they have a lot of user information which can be potential evidences. In order to obtain such evidences, forensic investigators should first extract the data from the smartphone. However, if the smartphone is lost or broken, it would be difficult to collect the data from the phone itself. In this case, the backup data can be very useful because it stores almost all information that the smartphone has. Nevertheless, since the backup data is basically encrypted by applications provided by vendors, the encrypted backup data which acts as anti-forensic is difficult to use. Therefore, it is crucial to decrypt the acquired encrypted backup data in order to effectively use it. In this paper, we propose a method to decrypt the Samsung smartphone backup data which is encrypted by a user input called PIN (Personal Identification Number) and a Samsung backup program called Smart Switch. In particular, we develop algorithms to recover the PIN and to decrypt the PIN-based encrypted backup data as well. We have experimentally verified the PIN recovery backup data decryption up to 9 digits of PIN. Our implementation using a precomputed PIN-table with memory 30.51 GB takes about 11 min to recover a 9-digit PIN. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first result of decrypting PIN-based encrypted backup data of Samsung smartphones. \'a9 2018 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: PIN-Based encryption and decryption;  Smartphone backup;  Smartphone forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 438\
Verma, V., Agarwal, N., Khanna, N.\
57203424380;57202255287;14045199500;\
DCT-domain deep convolutional neural networks for multiple JPEG compression classification\
(2018) Signal Processing: Image Communication, 67, pp. 22-33. Cited 22 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85047602489&doi=10.1016%2fj.image.2018.04.014&partnerID=40&md5=1c93b358746877dcdb1cb9e3748d3bbf\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.image.2018.04.014\
AFFILIATIONS: Multimedia Analysis and Security (MANAS) Lab, Electrical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Gandhinagar (IITGN)Gujarat, India\
ABSTRACT: With the rapid advancements in digital imaging systems and networking, low-cost hand-held image capture devices equipped with network connectivity are becoming ubiquitous. This ease of digital image capture and sharing is also accompanied by widespread usage of user-friendly image editing software. Thus, we are in an era where digital images can be very easily used for the massive spread of false information and their integrity needs to be seriously questioned. Application of multiple lossy compressions on images is an essential part of any image editing pipeline involving lossy compressed images. This paper aims to address the problem of classifying images based on the number of JPEG compressions they have undergone, by utilizing deep convolutional neural networks in DCT domain. The proposed system incorporates a well designed pre-processing step before feeding the image data to CNN to capture essential characteristics of compression artifacts and make the system image content independent. Detailed experiments are performed to optimize different aspects of the system, such as depth of CNN, number of DCT frequencies, and execution time. Results on the standard UCID dataset demonstrate that the proposed system outperforms existing system for multiple JPEG compression classification and is capable of classifying more number of re-compression cycles than existing systems. \'a9 2018 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Compression forensics;  Deep convolutional neural network (CNN);  Forgery detection;  Image forensics;  JPEG forensics;  Multiple compression\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 439\
Xie, Y., Feng, D., Liao, X., Qin, L.\
55710311200;57215345853;57202011836;12783408900;\
Efficient monitoring and forensic analysis via accurate network-attached provenance collection with minimal storage overhead\
(2018) Digital Investigation, 26, pp. 19-28. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85046824991&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.05.001&partnerID=40&md5=73e284a3a243cf91c6ccd6b2755cfb50\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.05.001\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China; \
Wuhan National Laboratory for Optoelectronics, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China\
ABSTRACT: Provenance, the history or lineage of an object, has been used to enable efficient forensic analysis in intrusion prevention system to detect intrusion, correlate anomaly, and reduce false alert. Especially for the network-attached environment, it is critical and necessary to accurately capture network context to trace back the intrusion source and identify the system vulnerability. However, most of the existing methods fail to collect accurate and complete network-attached provenance. In addition, how to enable efficient forensic analysis with minimal provenance storage overhead remains a big challenge. This paper proposes a provenance-based monitoring and forensic analysis framework called PDMS that builds upon existing provenance tracking framework. On one hand, it monitors and records every network session, and collects the dependency relationships between files, processes and network sockets. By carefully describing and collecting the network socket information, PDMS can accurately track the data flow in and out of the system. On the other hand, this framework unifies both efficient provenance filtering and query-friendly compression. Evaluation results show that this framework can make accurate and highly efficient forensic analysis with minimal provenance storage overhead. \'a9 2018 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forensic analysis;  Provenance;  Provenance compression;  Provenance filtering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 440\
Burruss, G.W., Holt, T.J., Wall-Parker, A.\
6602977773;16021876000;57196057314;\
The Hazards of Investigating Internet Crimes Against Children: Digital Evidence Handlers\'92 Experiences with Vicarious Trauma and Coping Behaviors\
(2018) American Journal of Criminal Justice, 43 (3), pp. 433-447. Cited 18 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85031490457&doi=10.1007%2fs12103-017-9417-3&partnerID=40&md5=3224f29f899ffdcec649f794780a54c1\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s12103-017-9417-3\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Criminology, The Florida Center for Cybersecurity (FC2), University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, United States; \
Department of Criminal Justice, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, United States; \
The National White Collar Crime Center (NW3C), Richmond, VA, United States\
ABSTRACT: Over the last two decades there has been a substantive increase in the number of cybercrime and digital forensic units in local and state police agencies across the US. There is, however, little research on the occupational responses of individuals serving in specialized roles within criminal justice agencies. Individuals tasked to these units are likely to encounter psychologically harmful materials on a regular basis due to the number of child pornography and sexual exploitation cases they are assigned. As a result, this study examined the experiences of vicarious trauma and coping behaviors of digital forensic examiners in a sample culled from across the country. The findings suggest that exposure to content involving crimes against children directly and indirectly increases the likelihood of trauma and incidence of coping strategies employed. \'a9 2017, Southern Criminal Justice Association.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Child pornography;  Cybercrime;  Digital forensic investigation;  Occupational responses;  Policing;  Vicarious trauma\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 441\
Huang, X., Wang, S., Liu, G.\
57201433076;16204388400;56136751400;\
Detecting Double Jpeg Compression with Same Quantization Matrix Based on Dense Cnn Feature\
(2018) Proceedings - International Conference on Image Processing, ICIP, art. no. 8451569, pp. 3813-3817. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85062916968&doi=10.1109%2fICIP.2018.8451569&partnerID=40&md5=a76a3bb8b1592d99c769c80ea7b4b171\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICIP.2018.8451569\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electric Information and Electronic Engineering, Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai, 200240, China\
ABSTRACT: Detection of double JPEG compression with same quantization matrix has been regarded as a challenging task in digital image forensics because there are very few modification cues in the tampered images especially when the compression quality factor is low. In order to solve this problem, a comprehensive feature representation based on the dense CNN framework is proposed, which is sensitive to the artifacts caused by double JPEG compression and is not related to the image content. With the appropriate network design and contributing to the characteristics of average pooling, dense connection and transition, the proposed network can differentiate double JPEG compression artifacts accurately. Experiment results on the two datasets have demonstrated that the proposed feature outperforms several state-of-the-art approaches investigated. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: CNN;  Double JPEG compression detection;  Same quantization matrix\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 442\
Verde, S., Bondi, L., Bestagini, P., Milani, S., Calvagno, G., Tubaro, S.\
57200544731;56928095700;21638596100;22635175200;7003853616;7003411765;\
Video Codec Forensics Based on Convolutional Neural Networks\
(2018) Proceedings - International Conference on Image Processing, ICIP, art. no. 8451143, pp. 530-534. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85062898780&doi=10.1109%2fICIP.2018.8451143&partnerID=40&md5=bd6e93617e853c19b41de3b8e3839568\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICIP.2018.8451143\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Engineering, University of Padova, Padova, Italy; \
Dipartimento di Elettronica, Informazione e Bioingegneria, Politecnico di Milano, Milano, Italy\
ABSTRACT: The recent development of multimedia has made video editing accessible to everyone. Unfortunately, forensic analysis tools capable of detecting traces left by video processing operations in a blind fashion are still at their beginnings. One of the reasons is that videos are customary stored and distributed in a compressed format, and codec-related traces tends to mask previous processing operations. In this paper, we propose to capture video codec traces through convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and exploit them as an asset. Specifically, we train two CNN s to extract information about the used video codec and coding quality, respectively. Building upon these CNN s, we propose a system to detect and localize temporal splicing for video sequences generated from the concatenation of different video segments, which are characterized by inconsistent coding schemes and/or parameters (e.g., video compilations from different sources or broadcasting channels). The proposed solution is validated using videos at different resolutions (i.e., CIF, 4CIF, PAL and 720p) encoded with four common codecs (i.e., MPEG2, MPEG4, H264 and H265) at different qualities (i.e., different constant and variable bitrates, as well as constant quantization parameters). \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Deep learning;  Forgery detection;  Temporal splicing;  Video codec identification;  Video forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 443\
Quick, D., Choo, K.-K.R.\
55420228800;57208540261;\
IoT Device Forensics and Data Reduction\
(2018) IEEE Access, 6, art. no. 8449277, pp. 47566-47574. Cited 16 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85052642121&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2018.2867466&partnerID=40&md5=e8d493acf4284ba945902342bf137c9a\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2867466\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information Technology and Mathematical Sciences, University of South Australia, Adelaide, SA  5001, Australia; \
Department of Information Systems and Cyber Security, University of Texas at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX  78249, United States\
ABSTRACT: The growth in the prevalence of the plethora of digital devices has resulted in growing volumes of disparate data, with potential relevance to criminal and civil investigations. With the increase in data volume, there is an opportunity to build greater case-related knowledge and discover evidence, with implications at all stages of the digital forensic analysis process. The growth in digital devices will potentially further contribute to the growth in big digital forensic data, with a need for practitioners to consider a wider range of data and devices that may be relevant to an investigation. A process of data reduction by selective imaging and quick analysis, coupled with automated data extraction, gives potential to undertake the analysis of the growing volume of data in a timely manner. In this paper, we outline a process of bulk digital forensic data analysis including disparate device data. We research the process with a research data corpus and apply our process to real-world data. The challenges of the growing volume of devices and data will require forensic practitioners to expand their ability to undertake research into newly developed data structures, and be able to explain this to the court, judge, jury, and investigators. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: data reduction;  digital forensics;  intelligence analysis;  IoT device forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 444\
Taylor, J., Turnbull, B., Creech, G.\
57204354788;15756106400;55822153000;\
Volatile memory forensics acquisition efficacy: A comparative study towards analysing firmware-based rootkits\
(2018) ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, art. no. 3232810, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85055283515&doi=10.1145%2f3230833.3232810&partnerID=40&md5=f92603189c7b2015633534becf0d90a2\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3230833.3232810\
AFFILIATIONS: UNSW Canberra Cyber, University of New South WalesACT, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Firmware-based malware is an emerging threat with few obvious mechanisms for detection. There have been multiple cases where the presence of firmware-based malware has been confirmed or strongly suspected, and current mitigations strategies have little or no recourse. Volatile memory forensics may be one of the few technologies that can be employed to detect the presence of modified firmware, through ROM shadowing. However, the majority of volatile memory forensic tools were not designed with this use-case in mind and may not be suited to the capture of protected memory regions. This work performs experimental analysis to determine which, if any, memory acquisition tools are able to collect evidence pertaining to firmware-based rootkits or malware. \'a9 2018 Copyright is held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Firmware-based rootkit;  Memory acquisition;  Memory forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 445\
Jin, X., Jing, P., Su, Y.\
57193447375;56971244300;55797981700;\
AMFNet: An adversarial network for median filtering detection\
(2018) IEEE Access, 6, art. no. 8447546, pp. 50459-50467. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85052612735&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2018.2867370&partnerID=40&md5=64ee3fe5e7de59b02a15e3a0e7ab4807\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2867370\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electrical and Information Engineering, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, China\
ABSTRACT: Median filtering is one of the most common operations for image smoothing and retouching, and it is often used as a post-processing by forgers to alleviate the traces of image tampering. Hence, if the traces of median filtering can be found in an image, this image is highly suspected. In this paper, we proposed an adversarial network for median filtering detection in RGB images. Our detection framework can be divided into three parts. To overcome the previous limitations of median filtering detection in gray-scale images, we first extract the dark channel residual in RGB images for suppressing the interference of content. Second, we merge several dark channel residual together by multi-scale fusion to better characterize the statistic traces left by different filter sizes. Third, we explore a generative adversarial network to improve the robustness and enhance the statistical difference between original images and median filtered images. Our method is extensively evaluated in several publicly available data sets. The experimental results present an obvious improvement compared with other competitors. Particularly, the proposed framework obtains better performances in the case of the small blocks with JPEG compression. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: auto-encoders;  dark channel;  generative adversarial networks (GANs);  Image forensics;  median filtering detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 446\
Corzo, R., Hoffman, T., Weis, P., Franco-Pedroso, J., Ramos, D., Almirall, J.\
55980451100;57200935249;7007170992;36634066500;22635815900;7004960911;\
The use of LA-ICP-MS databases to calculate likelihood ratios for the forensic analysis of glass evidence\
(2018) Talanta, 186, pp. 655-661. Cited 21 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85042683744&doi=10.1016%2fj.talanta.2018.02.027&partnerID=40&md5=2aa86db6e38c71d5b45601937eb1aea2\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.talanta.2018.02.027\
AFFILIATIONS: Florida International University, Miami, FL, United States; \
Bundeskriminalamt, KT 42, Wiesbaden, Germany; \
Universidad Autonoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain\
ABSTRACT: Laser Ablation-Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometry (LA-ICP-MS) has been shown to be an excellent technique for the discrimination of glass originating from different sources and for the association of glass originating from the same source. Typically, a match criterion is used to compare the elemental profile of the known sample to a questioned sample and if the glass samples are determined to \'93match\'94 this may be followed by the use of a verbal scale to report the forensic practitioner's conclusion. This approach has several disadvantages: a fixed match criterion suffers from the \'93fall-off-the-cliff effect,\'94 the rarity of an elemental profile is not taken into account, and the use of a verbal scale to assign a weight of evidence may be considered as subjective and can vary by examiner. An alternative approach includes the use of a continuous likelihood ratio that provides a quantitative measure of the value of the evidence in support of any hypothesis and accounts for the rarity of an elemental profile through the use of a glass database. In the present study, two glass databases were used to evaluate the performance of the likelihood ratio; the first database includes 420 automotive windshield samples, while the second database includes 385 glass samples from casework. The multivariate kernel model was used for the calculation of the likelihood ratio. However, this model led to unreasonably large (or small) likelihood ratios. Thus, a calibration step, using the Pool Adjacent Violators (PAV) algorithm, was necessary in order to limit the likelihood ratio to reasonable values. The calibrated likelihood ratio presented rates of misleading evidence of <1.5% (for LRs<1 when objects came from the same source), and of <1.0% (for LRs>1 when objects came from different sources), which improved over the analogous ASTM false inclusion and false exclusion rates previously reported. In addition, the likelihood ratio limited the magnitude of the misleading evidence, providing only weak to moderate support for the incorrect hypothesis. Finally, most of the pairs found to present LR>1 when objects originated from different sources were explained by similarity of manufacturer of the glass source. \'a9 2018 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forensic evidence interpretation;  Glass database;  LA-ICP-MS;  Likelihood ratio\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 447\
Wang, P., Liu, F., Yang, C., Luo, X.\
56230320600;8856731300;23502554000;8976166200;\
Blind forensics of image gamma transformation and its application in splicing detection\
(2018) Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, 55, pp. 80-90. Cited 11 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85047743780&doi=10.1016%2fj.jvcir.2018.05.020&partnerID=40&md5=123e433b787928a43e41348736ff40b8\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.jvcir.2018.05.020\
AFFILIATIONS: Zhengzhou Science and Technology Institute, Zhengzhou, 450001, China\
ABSTRACT: Image forensics technology based on image manipulation detection has aroused great interest of researchers in recent decades. By revealing the traces of image manipulations, it could contribute to the location of tampered areas. This paper addresses the detection of image gamma transformation and its application in image splicing detection. A 5-dimensional feature vector is constructed based on the effects of gamma transformation on the histogram, and then Support Vector Machine (SVM) is trained to detect gamma transformation. For splicing tampered area locating, the investigated image is divided into overlapping blocks based on the sliding window, and then each pixel gets a probability of being gamma transformed according to the detection results in image blocks, based on which the tampered area is located. The experimental results validate the effectiveness of the proposed method when no post-operations are applied. Meanwhile, the proposed method is robust to the attack of rank filtering. \'a9 2018\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Blind forensics;  Gamma transformation;  Manipulation detection;  Splicing;  Tampered area location\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 448\
Hilal, A., Chantaf, S.\
36439425500;57200914565;\
Uncovering copy\'96move traces using principal component analysis, discrete cosine transform and Gabor filter\
(2018) Analog Integrated Circuits and Signal Processing, 96 (2), pp. 283-291. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85042616356&doi=10.1007%2fs10470-018-1139-z&partnerID=40&md5=a5f05ce67031b39f7cb146fe6f88b565\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s10470-018-1139-z\
AFFILIATIONS: University Institute of Technology, Lebanese University, Aabey, Lebanon; \
University Institute of Technology, Lebanese University, Saida, Lebanon\
ABSTRACT: Digital image authenticity is always an imperative question to tackle whenever a digital image is being assessed for its content. Using digital forensic algorithms, the image will be evaluated for various traces left from numerous categories of manipulations including, among others, copy\'96move operations. Later this is considered an essential block in most digital image forgeries. It results in changing the information incorporated in a scene, hiding information from an image, or emphasizing some parts of the image. In this paper we propose and investigate two main approaches that differ in the feature extraction process in order to detect copy\'96move traces. In the first method, we use two-dimensional discrete cosine transform. Whereas in the second method, the phase response of Gabor filter is being used. Instead of being applied on the image directly, the two methods are applied over the first, the second or the third principal component of the image after being divided into overlapping blocks. Combining these conditions results in six basic implementations that are investigated under three parameters that must be optimized: block dimension, contrast and similarity thresholds. Results from testing and validation process demonstrate that the highest performance, in terms of false accept rate, is obtained when using Gabor filter associated with the first principal component of the image outperforming a reference method we implemented as well. \'a9 2018, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Copy\'96move forgery;  Digital image forgeries;  Digital image processing;  Duplicated region detection;  Image forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 449\
Guo, Y., Cao, X., Zhang, W., Wang, R.\
36625118400;8920951000;56303576300;55717793300;\
Fake colorized image detection\
(2018) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 13 (8), pp. 1932-1944. Cited 31 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85042194354&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2018.2806926&partnerID=40&md5=d602bc04e999c47d32ec705013d0d63a\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2018.2806926\
AFFILIATIONS: State Key Laboratory of Information Security, Institute of Information Engineering, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100093, China; \
Science and Technology on Information Assurance Laboratory, Beijing, 100072, China; \
School of Cyber Security, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China; \
JD AI Research, Beijing, 100105, China\
ABSTRACT: Image forensics aims to detect the manipulation of digital images. Currently, splicing detection, copy-move detection, and image retouching detection are attracting significant attention from researchers. However, image editing techniques develop over time. An emerging image editing technique is colorization, in which grayscale images are colorized with realistic colors. Unfortunately, this technique may also be intentionally applied to certain images to confound object recognition algorithms. To the best of our knowledge, no forensic technique has yet been invented to identify whether an image is colorized. We observed that, compared with natural images, colorized images, which are generated by three state-of-the-art methods, possess statistical differences for the hue and saturation channels. Besides, we also observe statistical inconsistencies in the dark and bright channels, because the colorization process will inevitably affect the dark and bright channel values. Based on our observations, i.e., potential traces in the hue, saturation, dark, and bright channels, we propose two simple yet effective detection methods for fake colorized images: Histogram-based fake colorized image detection and feature encoding-based fake colorized image detection. Experimental results demonstrate that both proposed methods exhibit a decent performance against multiple state-of-the-art colorization approaches. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: ECP;  Fake colorized image detection;  Hue;  Image forgery detection;  Saturation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 450\
Khaen, A., Rehman, S., Waleed, M., Khan, A., Umair, M., Kamal, T., Afridi, S.K., Marwat, S.N.K.\
57203792741;57190276660;57191958022;56028206300;57225411565;57203162465;57203161349;55235238800;\
Forensic video analysis: Passive tracking system for automated Person of Interest (POI) localization\
(2018) IEEE Access, 6, art. no. 8421576, pp. 43392-43403. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85050746603&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2018.2856936&partnerID=40&md5=afd685495d2961ed87f665e000b3e8df\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2856936\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Systems Engineering, University of Engineering and Technology at Peshawar, Peshawar, 25120, Pakistan; \
Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Engineering and Technology at Peshawar, Peshawar, 25120, Pakistan; \
Department of Computer Science, COMSATS Institute of Information Technology Attock, Attock, 43600, Pakistan\
ABSTRACT: Video recorders record the output of each security camera. After an incident, the video footage can be used for evidence by locating a suspect or criminal for a crime. A manual scan of the video footage requires a considerable amount of manpower and time, a luxury which cannot be afforded when tracking down a person of interest (POI). An automated system is proposed in this paper which aims at finding the desired POI through the available volume of video data quickly and accurately. It is visualized to go through all the available videos and detect the POI using facial recognition. Thereafter, it would create a video montage of all the desired frames and incorporate time and location information to produce a path map followed by the POI. The proposed system reduces the human burden, human error and reduces the time taken when searching the POI manually. Validation has been performed on various video data collected by ourselves as well. The results depict that the proposed system is able to correctly identify POI with an accuracy of 86% for video data captured in a constrained environment. Videos captured by a cell phone in an unconstrained environment result in an accuracy of around 80%. Real video tested in our university campus revealed the proposed system is capable of generating tracking information for POI effectively. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: facial recognition;  passive tracking;  security;  surveillance;  Video forensics;  video summarization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 451\
Amato, F., Cozzolino, G., Mazzeo, A., Moscato, F.\
57208073345;7003415482;7004438897;13405037300;\
An application of semantic techniques for forensic analysis\
(2018) Proceedings - 32nd IEEE International Conference on Advanced Information Networking and Applications Workshops, WAINA 2018, 2018-January, art. no. 8418100, pp. 380-385. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85056257886&doi=10.1109%2fWAINA.2018.00115&partnerID=40&md5=726368c74feea486c9cc715390514b93\
\
DOI: 10.1109/WAINA.2018.00115\
AFFILIATIONS: Univ. of Naples Federico II, Department of Electrical Engineering and Information Technology, Naples, Italy; \
Univ. of Campania 'Luigi Vanvitelli', Dept. of Scienze Politiche, Caserta, Italy\
ABSTRACT: In recent years, the advancement of Information and Communication Technologies has led to their involvement into many criminal activities. Thus, the development and deployment of digital forensics practices represent a fundamental goal to mine the potential value of data contained in digital devices and to support cyber-security. However, investigators use a variety of techniques and proprietary forensic software to examine digital devices that generate data in different formats. The variety, volume, heterogeneity, and, sometimes, real-time nature of data obtained from devices pose considerable challenges. In this paper, we propose a framework that supports investigators during the analysis process. The proposed framework retrieves and models evidences, found through different forensic tools, exploiting semantic technologies. Moreover, we present a system able to add semantic assertion to data generated by forensics tools during extraction processes. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Data correlation;  Forensic;  Semantic\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 452\
Nguyen, V.T., Siami Namin, A., Dang, T.\
57210589113;13805425800;36615132200;\
MalViz: An interactive visualization tool for tracing malware\
(2018) ISSTA 2018 - Proceedings of the 27th ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis, pp. 376-379. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85051456083&doi=10.1145%2f3213846.3229501&partnerID=40&md5=dd7873a89dfc215fa615c112cd73bf8b\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3213846.3229501\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Science Dept, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX  USA, United States\
ABSTRACT: This demonstration paper introduces MalViz, a visual analytic tool for analyzing malware behavioral patterns through process monitoring events. The goals of this tool are: 1) to investigate the relationship and dependencies among processes interacted with a running malware over a certain period of time, 2) to support professional security experts in detecting and recognizing unusual signature-based patterns exhibited by a running malware, and 3) to help users identify infected system and users' libraries that the malware has reached and possibly tampered. A case study is conducted in a virtual machine environment with a sample of four malware programs. The result of the case study shows that the visualization tool offers a great support for experts in software and system analysis and digital forensics to profile and observe malicious behavior and further identify the traces of affected software artifacts. \'a9 2018 Association for Computing Machinery.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Dynamic analysis;  Malware visualization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 453\
Cha, S., Kang, U., Choi, E.\
57216975371;57216979198;27170908400;\
The image forensics analysis of jpeg image manipulation (lightning talk)\
(2018) Proceedings - 2018 4th International Conference on Software Security and Assurance, ICSSA 2018, art. no. 9092099, pp. 82-85. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85085610102&doi=10.1109%2fICSSA45270.2018.00029&partnerID=40&md5=f41c5a6c0881a6b3208e7c3f0b92d907\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICSSA45270.2018.00029\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Information Security, Seoul Women's University, Seoul, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: We use pictures as evidence. It is increasingly important to detect the manipulated areas of digital images. But we also face fabricated photographs to distort it. As the days go by, the fabricated image becomes more sophisticated and invisible. Many people have tried to improve image forensics technology to distinguish this fabricated images. In this paper, We investigate how to detect manipulated areas of a digital image like JPEG image format that used lossy compression. We use the features of the lossy compression to detect the manipulated image by the error level analysis(ELA) that is the analysis digital data such as JPEG format. And we're going to show that the Error Level Analysis(ELA) can work as image forensics. Through this analysis, we will be able to better judge manipulated images. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensic;  Error Level Analysis;  Image forensic\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 454\
Iakovidou, C., Zampoglou, M., Papadopoulos, S., Kompatsiaris, Y.\
24604910700;15057359000;23095370800;7004756014;\
Content-aware detection of JPEG grid inconsistencies for intuitive image forensics\
(2018) Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, 54, pp. 155-170. Cited 19 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85047109565&doi=10.1016%2fj.jvcir.2018.05.011&partnerID=40&md5=6077fdfcda23f7f0329a4e0f178278e1\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.jvcir.2018.05.011\
AFFILIATIONS: Information Technologies Institute, Centre for Research and Technology Hellas, 6km Harilaou-Thermi Rd., Thessaloniki, 57001, Greece\
ABSTRACT: The paper proposes a novel method for detecting indicators of image forgery by locating grid alignment abnormalities in JPEG compressed image bitmaps. The method evaluates multiple grid positions with respect to a fitting function, and areas of lower contribution are identified as grid discontinuities and possibly tampered areas. An image segmentation step is introduced to differentiate between discontinuities produced by tampering and those that are attributed to image content, making the output maps easier to interpret by suppressing non-relevant activations. Our evaluations, on both synthetically produced datasets and real world tampering cases against seven methods from the literature, highlight the effectiveness of the proposed method in its ability to produce output maps that are clear and readable, and which can achieve successful detections on cases where other algorithms fail. \'a9 2018 Elsevier Inc.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forgery localization;  Image forensics;  JPEG artifacts;  Splicing\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 455\
Ding, X., Yang, G., Li, R., Zhang, L., Li, Y., Sun, X.\
55595491200;8647279200;55559317100;57192932172;56473710800;8439524300;\
Identification of Motion-Compensated Frame Rate Up-Conversion Based on Residual Signals\
(2018) IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, 28 (7), pp. 1497-1512. Cited 25 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85040683041&doi=10.1109%2fTCSVT.2017.2676162&partnerID=40&md5=c82362cfb18ffa80aa60287aedf02615\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TCSVT.2017.2676162\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information Science and Engineering, Hunan University, Changsha, 410082, China; \
School of Computer and Information Technology, Xinyang Normal University, Xinyang, 464000, China; \
School of Computer and Software, Nanjing University of Information Science and Technology, Nanjing, 210044, China\
ABSTRACT: Motion-compensated frame rate up-conversion (MC-FRUC) is originally presented to increase the motion continuity of low frame rate videos by periodically inserting new frames, which improves the viewing experience. However, MC-FRUC can also be exploited to fake high frame rate videos or splice two videos with different frame rates for malicious purposes. A blind forensics approach is proposed for the identification of various MC-FRUC techniques. A theoretical model is first built for residual signal, which is exploited as tampering trace for blind forensics. The identification of various MC-FRUC techniques is then converted into a problem of discriminating the differences of residual signals among them. A pre-classifier is designed to suppress the side effects of original frames and static interpolated frames in candidate videos. Then, spatial and temporal Markov statistics features are extracted from the residual signals inside the interpolated frames for MC-FRUC identification. Five open MC-FRUC softwares and six representative MC-FRUC techniques have been tested, and experimental results show that the proposed approach can effectively locate interpolated frames and further identify the adopted MC-FRUC technique for both uncompressed videos and compressed videos with high perceptual qualities. \'a9 1991-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Blind video forensics;  motion-compensated frame rate up-conversion;  residual signal and classification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 456\
Mahmood, T., Mehmood, Z., Shah, M., Khan, Z.\
56081146500;57190517865;56499822800;57188803233;\
An efficient forensic technique for exposing region duplication forgery in digital images\
(2018) Applied Intelligence, 48 (7), pp. 1791-1801. Cited 27 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85028828392&doi=10.1007%2fs10489-017-1038-5&partnerID=40&md5=35caf6df65197fe8bed6d6a10be03ed9\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s10489-017-1038-5\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Engineering, University of Engineering and Technology, Taxila, Pakistan; \
Department of Software Engineering, University of Engineering and Technology, Taxila, Pakistan; \
Department of Information Technology, Hazara University, Mansehra, Pakistan; \
School of Information Science and Technology, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, China\
ABSTRACT: The internet users share a massive amount of digital images daily. The accessibility of powerful image manipulation tools has made the integrity of image contents questionable. The most popular image tampering is to duplicate a region elsewhere in the same image to replicate or conceal some other region. The duplicated regions have identical color and texture attributes that make this artifact invisible to the human eye. Therefore, efficient techniques are required to verify the credibility of image contents by detecting the regions duplicated in the digital images. This paper proposes an efficient technique for exposing region duplication forgery in digital images. The proposed technique divides the approximation (LL) sub-band of shift invariant stationary wavelet transform into overlapping blocks of w \'d7 w (i.e. w = 4, 8) sizes. The distinctive features extracted from the overlapping blocks are utilized to expose the region duplication forgeries in digital images. The experimental results of the proposed technique are compared with state-of-the-art techniques that reveal the prominence, and effectiveness of the proposed technique in terms of precision, recall and F1 score for different block sizes. Therefore, the proposed technique can reliably be applied to identify the counterfeited regions and the benefits of the proposed technique can be achieved in different fields for example crime investigation, news reporting, and judiciary. \'a9 2017, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Copy-move;  Digital forensics;  Image tampering;  Passive authentication;  Region duplication\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 457\
Alkawaz, M.H., Sulong, G., Saba, T., Rehman, A.\
55556605000;6505595829;36110026100;35093155800;\
Detection of copy-move image forgery based on discrete cosine transform\
(2018) Neural Computing and Applications, 30 (1), pp. 183-192. Cited 67 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84996866529&doi=10.1007%2fs00521-016-2663-3&partnerID=40&md5=fcdc374ddb7f455c23c9d821bb7d014b\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s00521-016-2663-3\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Information Sciences and Engineering, Management and Science University, Shah Alam, Selangor, Malaysia; \
TM-IRDA Digital Media Centre (MaGIC-X), Faculty of Computing, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, Johor Bahru, Johor, Malaysia; \
College of Computer and Information Sciences, Prince Sultan University, Riyadh, 11586, Saudi Arabia; \
College of Computer and Information Systems, Al-Yamamah University, Riyadh, 11512, Saudi Arabia\
ABSTRACT: Since powerful editing software is easily accessible, manipulation on images is expedient and easy without leaving any noticeable evidences. Hence, it turns out to be a challenging chore to authenticate the genuineness of images as it is impossible for human\'92s naked eye to distinguish between the tampered image and actual image. Among the most common methods extensively used to copy and paste regions within the same image in tampering image is the copy-move method. Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT) has the ability to detect tampered regions accurately. Nevertheless, in terms of precision (FP) and recall (FN), the block size of overlapping block influenced the performance. In this paper, the researchers implemented the copy-move image forgery detection using DCT coefficient. Firstly, by using the standard image conversion technique, RGB image is transformed into grayscale image. Consequently, grayscale image is segregated into overlying blocks of m\'a0\'d7\'a0m pixels, m\'a0=\'a04.8. 2D DCT coefficients are calculated and reposition into a feature vector using zig-zag scanning in every block. Eventually, lexicographic sort is used to sort the feature vectors. Finally, the duplicated block is located by the Euclidean Distance. In order to gauge the performance of the copy-move detection techniques with various block sizes with respect to accuracy and storage, threshold D_similar\'a0=\'a00.1 and distance threshold (N)_d\'a0=\'a0100 are used to implement the 10 input images in order. Consequently, 4\'a0\'d7\'a04 overlying block size had high false positive thus decreased the accuracy of forged detection in terms of accuracy. However, 8\'a0\'d7\'a08 overlying block accomplished more accurately for forged detection in terms of precision and recall as compared to 4\'a0\'d7\'a04 overlying block. In a nutshell, the result of the accuracy performance of different overlying block size are influenced by the diverse size of forged area, distance between two forged areas and threshold value used for the research. \'a9 2016, The Natural Computing Applications Forum.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Copy-move image forgery;  Digital image forensics;  Discrete cosine transform;  Statistical moments\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 458\
Nikoukhah, T., Grompone Von Gioi, R., Colom, M., Morel, J.-M.\
57202996806;36131275700;55549886000;57203072257;\
Automatic JPEG Grid Detection with Controlled False Alarms, and Its Image Forensic Applications\
(2018) Proceedings - IEEE 1st Conference on Multimedia Information Processing and Retrieval, MIPR 2018, pp. 378-383. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85050111891&doi=10.1109%2fMIPR.2018.00083&partnerID=40&md5=9e42f1f584ad950e2d8389cd26c52d66\
\
DOI: 10.1109/MIPR.2018.00083\
AFFILIATIONS: CMLA, ENS Cachan, CNRS, Universit\'e9 Paris-Saclay, Cachan, 94235, France\
ABSTRACT: With the progress of image manipulation tools and the proliferation of fake news and images posted online on social networks, automatic identification of fake content is becoming indispensable. Lossy image compression leaves traces which can be used to recover the history of an image and to help decide about its authenticity. We propose a new JPEG grid detection algorithm. This operation is the first step of many forensic, anti-forensic, and deblocking algorithms. Our analysis is based on the detection of the blocking artifacts and is global and local at the same time. It retrieves the origin of the JPEG grid in all image regions and detects suspicious discrepancies. Our work is based on the a-contrario framework which reins in the over-detections caused by multiple testing. It also yields a Number of False Alarms (NFA) which gives extremely secure guarantees for tampering detection. We demonstrate the performance of the proposed method with both quantitative and visual results from well-known image databases. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: a-contrario method;  block artifact analysis;  digital forensics;  JPEG compression\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 459\
Khan, M.J., Yousaf, A., Khurshid, K., Abbas, A., Shafait, F.\
57193864194;57201199769;57119490500;57203088510;23390483600;\
Automated forgery detection in multispectral document images using fuzzy clustering\
(2018) Proceedings - 13th IAPR International Workshop on Document Analysis Systems, DAS 2018, pp. 393-398. Cited 27 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85044945026&doi=10.1109%2fDAS.2018.26&partnerID=40&md5=63b4ea8680188e7cfe6d6d8cb17a8a72\
\
DOI: 10.1109/DAS.2018.26\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical Engineering, Institute of Space Technology, Islamabad, 44000, Pakistan; \
School of Electrical Engineering and Computing, University of NewcastleNSW  2308, Australia; \
School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, National University of Sciences and Technology, Islamabad, 44000, Pakistan\
ABSTRACT: Multispectral imaging allows for analysis of images in multiple spectral bands. Over the past three decades, airborne and satellite multispectral imaging have been the focus of extensive research in remote sensing. In the recent years, ground based multispectral imaging has gained an immense amount of interest in the fields ranging from computer vision and medical imaging to art, archaeology and computational forensics. The rich information content in multispectral images allows forensic experts to examine the chemical composition of forensic traces. Due to its rapid, non-contact and non-destructive characteristics, multispectral imaging is an effective tool for visualization, age estimation, detection and identification of forensic traces in document images. Ink mismatch is a key indicator of forgery in a document. Inks of different materials exhibit different spectral signature even if they have the same color. Multispectral analysis of questioned documents images allows identification and discrimination of visually similar inks. In this paper, an efficient automatic ink mismatch detection technique is proposed which uses Fuzzy C-Means Clustering to divide the spectral responses of ink pixels in handwritten notes into different clusters which relate to the unique inks used in the document. Sauvola's local thresholding technique is employed to efficiently segment foreground text from the document image. Furthermore, feature selection is used to optimize the performance of the proposed method. The presented method provides better ink discrimination results than state-of-The-Art methods when tested on publicly available UWA Writing Inks Dataset. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: FCM Clustering;  Feature Selection;  Forgery Detection;  Ink Mismatch Detection;  Multispectral Imaging\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 460\
Bhatia, A., Rawat, C.D., Kumarjetawat, A.\
57202996232;42262644000;57202994085;\
Digital artifacts-anti-forensics approach for optimization of digital images\
(2018) IEEE International Conference on Power, Control, Signals and Instrumentation Engineering, ICPCSI 2017, pp. 544-548. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85050124916&doi=10.1109%2fICPCSI.2017.8391771&partnerID=40&md5=001e3c6920851b8de395129b853148b2\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICPCSI.2017.8391771\
AFFILIATIONS: PAHER, Udaipur, India; \
VESIT, India\
ABSTRACT: To study the adaptive anti-forensic approach for optimization of digital images comprises of the various quantization and compression techniques. The technology and the changing methods of capturing digital images and the methodologies used are very powerful to identify the forgery in the image processing. As every new leap in the technology brings along positive and negative responses, similar way the technological changes in the field of image processing has led to forgery of digital images. The advancement in the techniques of digital image is used for processing millions of images those are captured every second. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: DCT;  Double compression;  JPEG;  MATLAB;  Multimedia forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 461\
Singh, A.K., Rawat, C.S., Bhatia, A.\
57202983463;42262644000;57202996232;\
Alleviation of quantization artifact using anti-forensic in image processing\
(2018) 2017 International Conference on Energy, Communication, Data Analytics and Soft Computing, ICECDS 2017, pp. 2697-2701. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85050122776&doi=10.1109%2fICECDS.2017.8389944&partnerID=40&md5=7ffb4ac3217603644595522c95ba9810\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICECDS.2017.8389944\
AFFILIATIONS: EXTC, VESIT, Mumbai, India; \
PAHER, India\
ABSTRACT: There are various image forensic methods that are available, which identify image tampering but these techniques are unable to address the anti-forensics method which are capable to hide the trace of image tampering. In this paper, a Dither based image compression technique for the removal of Quantization Artifact of Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT) based compressed image is proposed. Initially, the discrete cosine transform is applied on 8\'d78 blocks of input image to get the transform coefficients. The transform coefficients are than quantized with the help of quantization table which results in formation of quantization artifact in DCT based compressed image. To remove quantization artifact, an anti-forensic technique has been developed with the help of Anti-forensic dither. The execution of the proposed strategy is approved by utilizing PSNR and Structural SIMilarity (SSIM) list quality measurements. Higher estimations of these parameters in compression to some current compression procedure shows productivity of the proposed technique. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensic dither;  DCT;  Image compression;  Image processing;  PSNR;  Quantization artifact;  SSIM\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 462\
Mo, H., Chen, B., Luo, W.\
57203093292;57195134319;18042301700;\
Fake faces identification via convolutional neural network\
(2018) IH and MMSec 2018 - Proceedings of the 6th ACM Workshop on Information Hiding and Multimedia Security, pp. 43-47. Cited 43 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85050504431&doi=10.1145%2f3206004.3206009&partnerID=40&md5=7dff8b89f7e38180cd33a3a43773285a\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3206004.3206009\
AFFILIATIONS: Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China\
ABSTRACT: Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) is a prominent generative model that are widely used in various applications. Recent studies have indicated that it is possible to obtain fake face images with a high visual quality based on this novel model. If those fake faces are abused in image tampering, it would cause some potential moral, ethical and legal problems. In this paper, therefore, we first propose a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) based method to identify fake face images generated by the current best method [20], and provide experimental evidences to show that the proposed method can achieve satisfactory results with an average accuracy over 99.4%. In addition, we provide comparative results evaluated on some variants of the proposed CNN architecture, including the high pass filter, the number of the layer groups and the activation function, to further verify the rationality of our method. \'a9 2018 Association for Computing Machinery.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Convolutional Neural Network (CNN);  Deep Learning;  Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN);  Image Forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 463\
Makrushin, A., Kraetzer, C., Neubert, T., Dittmann, J.\
35191938300;15033995900;57191632826;56157419800;\
Generalized benford's law for blind detection of morphed face images\
(2018) IH and MMSec 2018 - Proceedings of the 6th ACM Workshop on Information Hiding and Multimedia Security, pp. 49-54. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85050497410&doi=10.1145%2f3206004.3206018&partnerID=40&md5=a7a534f4e14acb5d43c0da1f462c3340\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3206004.3206018\
AFFILIATIONS: Otto-von-Guericke University of Magdeburg, Germany\
ABSTRACT: A morphed face image in a photo ID is a serious threat to imagebased user verification enabling that multiple persons could be matched with the same document. The application of machinereadable travel documents (MRTD) at automated border control (ABC) gates is an example of a verification scenario that is very sensitive to this kind of fraud. Detection of morphed face images prior to face matching is, therefore, indispensable for effective border security.We introduce the face morphing detection approach based on fitting a logarithmic curve to nine Benford features extracted from quantized DCT coefficients of JPEG compressed original and morphed face images. We separately study the parameters of the logarithmic curve in face and background regions to establish the traces imposed by the morphing process. The evaluation results show that a single parameter of the logarithmic curve may be sufficient to clearly separate morphed and original images. \'a9 2018 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Image Forensics;  Face Morphing;  Morphing Detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 464\
Chen, B., Luo, W., Luo, D.\
57195134319;18042301700;56508888300;\
Identification of audio processing operations based on convolutional neural network\
(2018) IH and MMSec 2018 - Proceedings of the 6th ACM Workshop on Information Hiding and Multimedia Security, pp. 73-77. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85050476297&doi=10.1145%2f3206004.3206005&partnerID=40&md5=a6f73bd53ee7fe359f49528b98281d53\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3206004.3206005\
AFFILIATIONS: Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China\
ABSTRACT: To reduce the tampering artifacts and/or enhance audio quality, some audio processing operations are often applied in the resulting tampered audio. Like image forensics, the detection of various post processing operations has become very important for audio authentication. In this paper, we propose a convolutional neural network (CNN) to detect audio processing operations. In the proposed method, we carefully design the network architecture, with particular attention to the frequency representation for the audio input, the activation function and the depth of the network. In our experiments, we evaluate the proposed method on audio clips with 12 commonly used audio processing operations and of three different small sizes. The experimental results show that our method can significantly outperform related methods based on hand-crafted features and other CNN architectures, and can achieve state-of-the-art results for both binary and multiple classification. \'a9 2018 Association for Computing Machinery.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Audio Forensics;  Audio Processing Operations;  Convolutional Neural Network\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 465\
Teerakanok, S., Uehara, T.\
37015690500;8215150700;\
Copy-move Forgery Detection Using GLCM-Based Rotation-Invariant Feature: A Preliminary Research\
(2018) Proceedings - International Computer Software and Applications Conference, 2, art. no. 8377887, pp. 365-369. Cited 14 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85055513884&doi=10.1109%2fCOMPSAC.2018.10259&partnerID=40&md5=f4ec3966bcc506de7cc71048ecab8dda\
\
DOI: 10.1109/COMPSAC.2018.10259\
AFFILIATIONS: Cyber Security Laboratory, Graduate School of Information Science and Engineering, Ritsumeikan University, Kusatsu, Shiga, 525-8577, Japan; \
Cyber Security Laboratory, College of Information Science and Engineering, Ritsumeikan University, Kusatsu, Shiga, 525-8577, Japan\
ABSTRACT: In the present day, the credibility of digital media is in doubt. With emerging of easy-to-use media altering software, the realistic forged media can be easily created. In the court of law, however, every single piece of digital evidence is needed to be verified. Without experts in this field, performing the basic investigation to determine the integrity of a target digital evidence is extremely hard or close to impossible. In this paper, we present a new technique for detection copy-move forgery (CMF) in the digital image using SURF key-point detection together with GLCM-based feature descriptors. Using the proposed mechanism, CMF can be efficiently detected. The experiments show detection results in which CMF area are clearly marked and shown. The proposed method not only provide support to experts or skilled practitioners but can also be used to apply with classification method (e.g. SVM) to help non-experts with automatic detection systems which need less or no human interaction. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Copy move;  Digital forensics;  GLCM;  Image forgery;  Rotation invariant feature\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 466\
Ries, T.\
57204426848;\
The rationale of the born-digital dossier g\'e9n\'e9tique: Digital forensics and the writing process: With examples from the Thomas Kling Archive\
(2018) Digital Scholarship in the Humanities, 33 (2), pp. 391-424. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85055577426&doi=10.1093%2fllc%2ffqx049&partnerID=40&md5=6f7cde7c3c90596c311432357b16dc43\
\
DOI: 10.1093/llc/fqx049\
AFFILIATIONS: Ghent University, Belgium\
ABSTRACT: The article outlines the rationale of the born-digital dossier g\'e9n\'e9tique from a digital forensic perspective in the light of the recent discussion about digital materiality. In its first part, the study addresses theoretical, conceptual, and methodological questions that arise from the specific materiality of the born-digital avant-texte, namely, the dualism of 'forensic materiality' and 'formal materiality' (M. Kirschenbaum) and the role of distributed materiality (J.-F. Blanchette). The article argues that the born-digital record, consisting of digital objects, temporary files, metadata, and fragmented traces of the writing process scattered across multiple system locations, has to be analyzed with regard to the specific historical computing context, its distributed materiality ensemble of hardware, operating system, and application (multi-evidential perspective, J. L. John). Current challenges for born-digital preservation and philological analysis will be discussed. In the second part, the exemplary analysis of several digital drafts and text fragments found on the hard drives of German poet Thomas Kling (1957-2005) sheds light on digital materiality from a practical digital forensic and critique g\'e9n\'e9tique perspective. The following methods will be demonstrated: analysis of fast save artifacts in Microsoft Word documents; draft text recovery from CHK files; file carving and verification of recovery results (true, false positives); recovery of text fragments from drive slack. Digital forensic methodology is in the focus of this article as a tool in the context of archival studies, philology, genetic criticism, and scholarly editing of born-digital material. As born-digital primary records of cultural, social, and political history (private storage media, cloud storage, world wide web content as well as public and semi-public social media posts) come to the archives in increasing numbers and volumes, the forensic perspective on born-digital material, questions of authentic preservation and analysis, bibliographic citability and stability, materiality and their status as a document and evidence as well as legal and ethical issues of preservation, curation and access in the archives become crucial for all humanities disciplines. \'a9 The Author 2017.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 467\
Hilal, A.\
36439425500;\
Image re-sampling detection through a novel interpolation kernel\
(2018) Forensic Science International, 287, pp. 25-35. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85044976305&doi=10.1016%2fj.forsciint.2018.03.024&partnerID=40&md5=0ff380e7ab3490ea768580a028352f90\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2018.03.024\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Communication and Computer Network Engineering, Lebanese University, Aabey, Lebanon\
ABSTRACT: Image re-sampling involved in re-size and rotation transformations is an essential element block in a typical digital image alteration. Fortunately, traces left from such processes are detectable, proving that the image has gone a re-sampling transformation. Within this context, we present in this paper two original contributions. First, we propose a new re-sampling interpolation kernel. It depends on five independent parameters that controls its amplitude, angular frequency, standard deviation, and duration. Then, we demonstrate its capacity to imitate the same behavior of the most frequent interpolation kernels used in digital image re-sampling applications. Secondly, the proposed model is used to characterize and detect the correlation coefficients involved in re-sampling transformations. The involved process includes a minimization of an error function using the gradient method. The proposed method is assessed over a large database of 11,000 re-sampled images. Additionally, it is implemented within an algorithm in order to assess images that had undergone complex transformations. Obtained results demonstrate better performance and reduced processing time when compared to a reference method validating the suitability of the proposed approaches. \'a9 2018 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Image interpolation;  Re-sampling detection;  Signal processing\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 468\
Athulya, M.S., Sathidevi, P.S.\
54394929700;6506570149;\
Speaker verification from codec distorted speech for forensic investigation through serial combination of classifiers\
(2018) Digital Investigation, 25, pp. 70-77. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85044928572&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.03.005&partnerID=40&md5=9fc59745b211fd4ac60e0b6e195a9850\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.03.005\
AFFILIATIONS: Electronics and Communication Engineering Department, National Institute of Technology, Calicut, India\
ABSTRACT: Forensic investigation often uses biometric evidence as important aids for identifying the culprits. Speech is one of the easily available biometrics in today's hi-tech world. But, most of the speech biometric evidence acquired for investigative purposes will usually be highly distorted. Among these distortions, most prominent is the distortion introduced by the speech codec. Speech codec may either remove or distort some of the speaker-specific features, and this may reduce the speaker verification accuracy. The effect of distortion on commonly used speaker-specific features namely Mel Frequency Cepstral Coefficients (MFCC) and Power Normalized Cepstral Coefficients (PNCC), due to Code Excited Linear Prediction (CELP) codec (the most widely used speech codec in today's mobile telephony), is quantified in this paper. The features which are least affected by the codec are experimentally determined as PNCC. But, when these PNCC coefficients are directly employed, speaker verification error rate obtained is 20% with Gaussian Mixture Model-Universal Background Model (GMM-UBM) classifier. To improve the verification accuracy, PNCCs are slightly modified, and these modified PNCCs (MPNCC) are used as the feature set for the speaker verification. With these modified PNCCs, the error rate is reduced to 15%. By fusing these MPNCCs with MFCC, the error rate is further reduced to 8.75%. A series combination of GMM-UBM and Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifiers is also proposed here to enhance the speaker verification accuracy further. The speaker verification error rates for different baseline classifiers are compared with that of the proposed serially combined GMM-UBM and SVM classifiers. The classifier fusion with the fused feature set largely reduced the error rates to 2.5% which is very much less than that of baseline classifiers with normal PNCC features. Hence, this system is a good candidate for investigative purposes. \'a9 2018 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Codec distortion;  Equal error rate;  GMM-UBM;  PNCC;  Speaker verification;  SVM\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 469\
Riaz, H., Tahir, M.A.\
57190215136;56594372800;\
Analysis of VMware virtual machine in forensics and anti-forensics paradigm\
(2018) 6th International Symposium on Digital Forensic and Security, ISDFS 2018 - Proceeding, 2018-January, pp. 1-6. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85050968408&doi=10.1109%2fISDFS.2018.8355375&partnerID=40&md5=57a21acd61245c45d59dc1c023f5903b\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISDFS.2018.8355375\
AFFILIATIONS: Punjab Forensic Science Agency, Lahore, Pakistan\
ABSTRACT: Virtual machine is an emulation of physical computer system. It works as a normal computer and provides complete functionality of an Operating System to the user. With the advent of virtualization technology, the use of virtual machines has increased manifold. These are now used on large scale in modern data centers. So is its use on personal computers for work, study and research purpose. However, where there is any new technology for good purpose, there is always its illegitimate usage as well. This manuscript focusses on analysis of virtual machine in forensics and anti-forensics paradigm. Forensic analysis of virtual machine and particularly the analysis when anti-forensic measures are taken to hide or destroy the evidence in virtual machines is covered in this work. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Hypervisor;  Virtual Forensics;  Virtual Machine Monitor;  Virtualization;  VMDK file format;  VMware Forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 470\
Guera, D., Yarlagadda, S.K., Bestagini, P., Zhu, F., Tubaro, S., Delp, E.J.\
57193570578;57195397847;21638596100;57221632010;7003411765;7005252700;\
Reliability Map Estimation for CNN-Based Camera Model Attribution\
(2018) Proceedings - 2018 IEEE Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision, WACV 2018, 2018-January, pp. 964-973. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85050981354&doi=10.1109%2fWACV.2018.00111&partnerID=40&md5=9c7ffdb8ea05c7a24475c48b8f0cdf58\
\
DOI: 10.1109/WACV.2018.00111\
AFFILIATIONS: Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, United States; \
Politecnico di Milano, Milan, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Among the image forensic issues investigated in the last few years, great attention has been devoted to blind camera model attribution. This refers to the problem of detecting which camera model has been used to acquire an image by only exploiting pixel information. Solving this problem has great impact on image integrity assessment as well as on authenticity verification. Recent advancements that use convolutional neural networks (CNNs) in the media forensic field have enabled camera model attribution methods to work well even on small image patches. These improvements are also important for determining forgery localization. Some patches of an image may not contain enough information related to the camera model (e.g., saturated patches). In this paper, we propose a CNN-based solution to estimate the camera model attribution reliability of a given image patch. We show that we can estimate a reliabilitymap indicating which portions of the image contain reliable camera traces. Testing using a well known dataset confirms that by using this information, it is possible to increase small patch camera model attribution accuracy by more than 8% on a single patch. \'a9 2018 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 471\
Wen, L., Qi, H., Lyu, S.\
55376692700;12242502500;8727557200;\
Contrast enhancement estimation for digital image forensics\
(2018) ACM Transactions on Multimedia Computing, Communications and Applications, 14 (2), art. no. 49, . Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85051983402&doi=10.1145%2f3183518&partnerID=40&md5=7d3a14af1769abbd8a76e710eec3acdc\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3183518\
AFFILIATIONS: GE Global Research Center, 1 Research Circle, Niskayuna, NY  12309, United States; \
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, School of Computer and Control Engineering, No. 3, Zhong-GuanCun NanYiTiao, Beijing, 100049, China; \
University at Albany, State University of New York, Computer Science Department, 1400 Washington Avenue, Albany, NY  12222, United States; \
Tianjin Normal University, School of Computer and Information Engineering, No. 393, Binshui XiDao, Tianjin, China\
ABSTRACT: Inconsistency in contrast enhancement can be used to expose image forgeries. In this work, we describe a new method to estimate contrast enhancement operations from a single image. Our method takes advantage of the nature of contrast enhancement as a mapping between pixel values and the distinct characteristics it introduces to the image pixel histogram. Our method recovers the original pixel histogram and the contrast enhancement simultaneously from a single image with an iterative algorithm. Unlike previous works, our method is robust in the presence of additive noise perturbations that are used to hide the traces of contrast enhancement. Furthermore, we also develop an effective method to detect image regions undergone contrast enhancement transformations that are different from the rest of the image, and we use this method to detect composite images. We perform extensive experimental evaluations to demonstrate the efficacy and efficiency of our method. \'a9 2018 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Contrast enhancement;  Media forensics;  Pixel histogram\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 472\
Wang, M., Wu, Q., Qin, B., Wang, Q., Liu, J., Guan, Z.\
57202033829;57203292026;8707757400;57199480696;55682417200;57191897502;\
Lightweight and Manageable Digital Evidence Preservation System on Bitcoin\
(2018) Journal of Computer Science and Technology, 33 (3), pp. 568-586. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85046847853&doi=10.1007%2fs11390-018-1841-4&partnerID=40&md5=ac619dfc0d875912b4abcbffe9fe0732\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11390-018-1841-4\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electronic and Information Engineering, Beihang University, Beijing, 100191, China; \
School of Information, Renmin University of China, Beijing, 100872, China\
ABSTRACT: An effective and secure system used for evidence preservation is essential to possess the properties of anti-loss, anti-forgery, anti-tamper and perfect verifiability. Traditional architecture which relies on centralized cloud storage is depressingly beset by the security problems such as incomplete confidence and unreliable regulation. Moreover, an expensive, inefficient and incompatible design impedes the effort of evidence preservation. In contrast, the decentralized blockchain network is qualified as a perfect replacement for its secure anonymity, irrevocable commitment, and transparent traceability. Combining with subliminal channels in blockchain, we have weaved the transaction network with newly designed evidence audit network. In this paper, we have presented and implemented a lightweight digital evidence-preservation architecture which possesses the features of privacy-anonymity, audit-transparency, function-scalability and operation-lightweight. The anonymity is naturally formed from the cryptographic design, since the cipher evidence under encrypted cryptosystem and hash-based functions leakages nothing to the public. Covert channels are efficiently excavated to optimize the cost, connectivity and security of the framework, transforming the great computation power of Bitcoin network to the value of credit. The transparency used for audit, which relates to the proof of existence, comes from instant timestamps and irreversible hash functions in mature blockchain network. The scalability is represented by the evidence chain interacted with the original blockchain, and the extended chains on top of mainchain will cover the most of auditors in different institutions. And the lightweight, which is equal to low-cost, is derived from our fine-grained hierarchical services. At last, analyses of efficiency, security, and availability have shown the complete accomplishment of our system. \'a9 2018, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: blockchain;  covert channel;  data auditing;  digital evidence\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 473\
Akhtar, Z., Khan, E.\
57192679798;7103122802;\
Revealing the traces of histogram equalisation in digital images\
(2018) IET Image Processing, 12 (5), pp. 760-768. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85045887343&doi=10.1049%2fiet-ipr.2017.0992&partnerID=40&md5=abcaf34a828b528c6a51434266062c10\
\
DOI: 10.1049/iet-ipr.2017.0992\
AFFILIATIONS: Department Electrical Engineering, Indian Institutes of Technology, Kanpur, India; \
Department of Electronics Engineering, Zakir Husain College of Engineering and Technology, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, India\
ABSTRACT: The popular histogram equalisation (HE) technique, which was developed to improve the image contrast, sometimes may also be misused to hide intensity variations in tampered images with ill intention. The authors investigate how existing image forensic techniques may fail to detect HE operation in highly compressed and low-resolution images. They then propose an algorithm to detect whether a given image (either uncompressed or JPEG compressed) has undergone the HE process or not. It is based on the frequency domain analysis of image histogram and exploits the difference in DC and AC coefficients in histogram's discrete Fourier transform. It can detect HE operation even if the image is saved in JPEG format after the equalisation, where most the existing algorithms fail. The extensive computer simulations over large dataset show the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm. \'a9 The Institution of Engineering and Technology 2018.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 474\
Singh, B., Singh, U.\
57161552900;7402543473;\
Program execution analysis in Windows: A study of data sources, their format and comparison of forensic capability\
(2018) Computers and Security, 74, pp. 94-114. Cited 11 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85041492923&doi=10.1016%2fj.cose.2018.01.006&partnerID=40&md5=01733f40a130662e0d97dca969df9e86\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.cose.2018.01.006\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DU), Girinagar, Pune, India\
ABSTRACT: Nowadays, perpetrators of the crimes are more forensic-aware than ever and take preventive measures to limit or delete the program execution artifacts. Also, analysts are mostly confronted with the computer systems infected with evil programs (for example, malware and ransomware) that are designed to remain hidden whilst running and erase the traces of their executions. Program execution analysis is very meaningful effort to unravel the Indicators of Compromise (IOCs) on an infected system and detect anti-forensic tools used to complicate the investigations. The sources of program executions being created and stored are rising in newer Windows systems, however, to analyze one source in isolation would uncover only a piece of information. Thus, there is a need to take different sources of program executions into account as a whole for comprehensive examination of the digital incident, and a study of forensic capabilities of these artifacts in a comparative manner is needed. To fill the gap, this study considers eleven sources of program executions: Prefetch, Jump Lists, Shortcut (LNK), UserAssist, Amcache.hve, IconCache.db, AppCompatFlags, AppCompatCache, RunMRU, MuiCache and SRUDB.dat, and investigates the effects of running various types of applications (for example, host-based executables, package applications, portable application, and Windows Store Apps) on these artifacts in a Windows 10 Pro client system. The effects of running five popular anti-forensic tools (for example, privacy cleaners) are also observed and a comparison of scrubbing capabilities of these tools is presented. In addition, the study also discusses the forensic significance of examining the considered program execution artifacts. The study will have direct implications on the forensic or malware investigations involving program execution analysis as a subject of interest. \'a9 2018 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Program execution analysis;  Program execution artifacts;  Registry forensics;  Windows 10;  Windows forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 475\
Sadeghi, S., Dadkhah, S., Jalab, H.A., Mazzola, G., Uliyan, D.\
57208277866;55548057900;36179737700;24460695400;57188769085;\
State of the art in passive digital image forgery detection: copy-move image forgery\
(2018) Pattern Analysis and Applications, 21 (2), pp. 291-306. Cited 17 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85039044124&doi=10.1007%2fs10044-017-0678-8&partnerID=40&md5=16b6a7b10bcc0f68d5c05291ec575466\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s10044-017-0678-8\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; \
Kyushu Institute of Technology, 680-4 Kawazu, Iizuka, Fukuoka  820-8502, Japan; \
Dipartimento di Ingegneria Chimica, Gestionale, Informatica, Meccanica Universit degli Studi di Palermo, viale delle Scienze bd.6, Palermo, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Authenticating digital images is increasingly becoming important because digital images carry important information and due to their use in different areas such as courts of law as essential pieces of evidence. Nowadays, authenticating digital images is difficult because manipulating them has become easy as a result of powerful image processing software and human knowledge. The importance and relevance of digital image forensics has attracted various researchers to establish different techniques for detection in image forensics. The core category of image forensics is passive image forgery detection. One of the most important passive forgeries that affect the originality of the image is copy-move digital image forgery, which involves copying one part of the image onto another area of the same image. Various methods have been proposed to detect copy-move forgery that uses different types of transformations. The goal of this paper is to determine which copy-move forgery detection methods are best for different image attributes such as JPEG compression, scaling, rotation. The advantages and drawbacks of each method are also highlighted. Thus, the current state-of-the-art image forgery detection techniques are discussed along with their advantages and drawbacks. \'a9 2017, Springer-Verlag London Ltd., part of Springer Nature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Copy-move forgery;  Digital forensic;  Duplicated detection;  Manipulation detection;  Passive authentication\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 476\
Arshad, A., Iqbal, W., Abbas, H.\
56825379100;56102434000;57221959316;\
USB Storage Device Forensics for Windows 10\
(2018) Journal of Forensic Sciences, 63 (3), pp. 856-867. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85025067858&doi=10.1111%2f1556-4029.13596&partnerID=40&md5=f384cf7a5f91ff0fedac59888f34bf14\
\
DOI: 10.1111/1556-4029.13596\
AFFILIATIONS: National University of Sciences and Technology (NUST), Islamabad, 44000, Pakistan; \
Florida Institute of Technology (FIT), Melbourne, FL  32901, United States\
ABSTRACT: Significantly increased use of USB devices due to their user-friendliness and large storage capacities poses various threats for many users/companies in terms of data theft that becomes easier due to their efficient mobility. Investigations for such data theft activities would require gathering critical digital information capable of recovering digital forensics artifacts like date, time, and device information. This research gathers three sets of registry and logs data: first, before insertion; second, during insertion; and the third, after removal of a USB device. These sets are analyzed to gather evidentiary information from Registry and Windows Event log that helps in tracking a USB device. This research furthers the prior research on earlier versions of Microsoft Windows and compares it with latest Windows 10 system. Comparison of Windows 8 and Windows 10 does not show much difference except for new subkey under USB Key in registry. However, comparison of Windows 7 with latest version indicates significant variances. \'a9 2017 American Academy of Forensic Sciences\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: forensic science;  Microsoft event log;  Registry;  USB forensics investigation;  USB storage device;  Windows 10 forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 477\
Alherbawi, N., Shukur, Z., Sulaiman, R.\
57193209631;8230989000;23391262600;\
JPEG image classification in digital forensic via DCT coefficient analysis\
(2018) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 77 (10), pp. 12805-12835. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85021785305&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-017-4915-3&partnerID=40&md5=3cecfc9bd80d6789e240ad72ca2dd907\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-017-4915-3\
AFFILIATIONS: Research Center for Software Technology and Management, Faculty of Information Science and Technology, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Bangi, Selangor  43600, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: From the digital forensics point of view, image forgery is considered as evidence that could provide a major breakthrough in the investigation process. Additionally, the development of storage device technologies has increased storage space significantly. Thus a digital investigator can be overwhelmed by the amount of data on storage devices that needs to be analysed. In this paper, we propose a model for classifying bulk JPEG images produced by the data carving process or other means into three different classes to solve the problem of identifying forgery quickly and effectively. The first class is JPEG images that contain errors or corrupted data, the second class is JPEG images that contain forged regions, and the third is JPEG images that have no signs of corruption or forgery. To test the proposed model, some experiments were conducted on our own dataset in addition to CASIA V2 image forgery dataset. The experiments covered different types of forgery technique. The results yielded around 88% accuracy rate in the classification process using five different machine learning methods on CASIA V2 dataset. It can be concluded that the proposed model can help investigators to automatically classify JPEG images, which reduce the time needed in the overall digital investigation process. \'a9 2017, Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Data carving;  DCT coefficient analysis;  Digital investigation;  JPEG image classification;  JPEG image forgery\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 478\
Zhang, D., Liang, Z., Yang, G., Li, Q., Li, L., Sun, X.\
55318418900;56585173000;8647279200;57194388179;55839736400;8439524300;\
A robust forgery detection algorithm for object removal by exemplar-based image inpainting\
(2018) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 77 (10), pp. 11823-11842. Cited 32 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85019908853&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-017-4829-0&partnerID=40&md5=1e6177ebb7c9b856ffb3f01fdc333caa\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-017-4829-0\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information Science and Engineering, Hunan University, Changsha, 410082, China; \
School of Computer & Communication Engineering, Changsha University of Science & Technology, Changsha, 410005, China; \
College of Mathematics and Economics, Hunan University, Changsha, 410082, China; \
School of Information and Electrical Engineering, China University of Mining and Technology, Xuzhou, 2211166, China; \
School of Computer and Software, Nanjing University of Information Science & Technology, Nanjing, 210044, China\
ABSTRACT: Object removal is a malicious image forgery technique, which is usually achieved by exemplar-based image inpainting in a visually plausible way. Most existing forgery detection approaches utilize similar block pairs between inpainted area and the rest areas, but they invalidate when those inpainted images are further subjected to some post-processing operations such as JPEG compression, Gaussian noise addition and blurring. It is desirable to develop a forensic method which is robust to object removal with post-processing. From some preliminary experiments, we observe that post-processing destroys the similarity of block pairs and simultaneously disturbs the correlations among adjacent pixels to some extent. Inspired by the strong ability of joint probability density matrix (JPDM) in characterizing such correlation, we propose a hybrid forensics strategy. Firstly, our earlier method is employed to detect whether a candidate image is forged or not. Secondly, for those undetected images after the first step, JPDM is computed for each difference array to model the correlations among adjacent DCT coefficients, and the average of these matrixes are computed as feature vectors to further expose tampering traces. Experimental results show that the proposed approach can effectively detect object removal by exemplar-based inpainting either with or without post-processing. \'a9 2017, Springer Science+Business Media New York.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Exemplar-based image inpainting;  Joint probability density matrix;  Passive image forensics;  Post-processing\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 479\
Berbecaru, D.\
8521822800;\
On creating digital evidence in IP networks with NetTrack\
(2018) Handbook of Research on Network Forensics and Analysis Techniques, pp. 225-246. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85046317535&doi=10.4018%2f978-1-5225-4100-4.ch012&partnerID=40&md5=3b713a7b90e79066ef1a5a9f8c422b74\
\
DOI: 10.4018/978-1-5225-4100-4.ch012\
AFFILIATIONS: Politecnico di Torino, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Computer forensic is the practice of collecting, analyzing, and reporting digital evidence in a way that is legally admissible in open court. Network forensics, an offset of computer forensic, is mainly concerned with the monitoring and analysis of network traffic, both local and WAN/internet, in order to identify security incidents and to investigate fraud or network misuse. In this chapter, the authors discuss challenges in creating high-speed network forensic tools and propose NetTrack, a tamper-proof device aimed to produce evidences with probative value via digital signatures for the network traffic. Since digitally signing each IP packet is not efficient, the authors used a specific technique exploiting the Merkle trees to create digital signatures for flows and multicasts and implemented it by using an optimized algorithm for Merkle tree traversal to save space and time. Through experiments, the authors show NetTrack signing is fast as it can produce digital evidence within a short time. \'a9 2018, IGI Global. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 480\
Barmpatsalou, K., Cruz, T., Monteiro, E., Simoes, P.\
57200389490;36974929400;7102113849;57203241452;\
Current and future trends in mobile device forensics: A survey\
(2018) ACM Computing Surveys, 51 (3), art. no. 46, . Cited 24 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85047193933&doi=10.1145%2f3177847&partnerID=40&md5=2a64e616a2f868a69362a5e502b0a70d\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3177847\
AFFILIATIONS: Centre for Informatics and Systems of the University of Coimbra, Department of Informatics (CISUC/DEI), University of Coimbra, Polo II-Pinhal de Marrocos, Coimbra, 3030-290, Portugal\
ABSTRACT: Contemporary mobile devices are the result of an evolution process, during which computational and networking capabilities have been continuously pushed to keep pace with the constantly growing workload requirements. This has allowed devices such as smartphones, tablets, and personal digital assistants to perform increasingly complex tasks, up to the point of efficiently replacing traditional options such as desktop computers and notebooks. However, due to their portability and size, these devices are more prone to theft, to become compromised, or to be exploited for attacks and other malicious activity. The need for investigation of the aforementioned incidents resulted in the creation of the Mobile Forensics (MF) discipline. MF, a sub-domain of digital forensics, is specialized in extracting and processing evidence from mobile devices in such a way that attacking entities and actions are identified and traced. Beyond its primary research interest on evidence acquisition from mobile devices, MF has recently expanded its scope to encompass the organized and advanced evidence representation and analysis of future malicious entity behavior. Nonetheless, data acquisition still remains its main focus. While the field is under continuous research activity, new concepts such as the involvement of cloud computing in the MF ecosystem and the evolution of enterprise mobile solutions-particularly mobile device management and bring your own device-bring new opportunities and issues to the discipline. The current article presents the research conducted within the MF ecosystem during the last 7 years, identifies the gaps, and highlights the differences from past research directions, and addresses challenges and open issues in the field. \'a9 2018 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Digital investigations;  Evidence acquisition;  Evidence parsing;  Forensic ontologies;  Mobile cloud forensics;  Mobile forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 481\
Gupta, A., Singhal, D.\
57214417142;57202088593;\
Analytical global median filtering forensics based on moment histograms\
(2018) ACM Transactions on Multimedia Computing, Communications and Applications, 14 (2), art. no. 44, . Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85047163811&doi=10.1145%2f3176650&partnerID=40&md5=857064b797f28d8900761a85a9bfba83\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3176650\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electronics and Communication, Jaypee Institute of Information Technology, A-10, Sector-62, Noida, Uttar Pradesh, 201309, India\
ABSTRACT: Median filtering forensics in images has gained wide attention from researchers in recent years because of its inherent nature of preserving visual traces. Although many forensic methods are developed for median filtering detection, probability of detection reduces under JPEG compression at low-quality factors and for low-resolution images. The feature set reduction is also a challenging issue among existing detectors. In this article, a 19-dimensional feature set is analytically derived from image skewness and kurtosis histograms. This new feature set is exploited for the purpose of global median filtering forensics and verified with exhaustive experimental results. The efficacy of the method is tested on six popular databases (UCID, BOWS2, BOSSBase, NRCS, RAISE, and DID) and found that the new feature set uncovers filtering traces for moderate, low JPEG post-compression and low-resolution operation. Our proposed method yields lowest probability of error and largest area under the ROC curve for most of the test cases in comparison with previous approaches. Some novel test cases are introduced to thoroughly assess the benefits and limitations of the proposed method. The obtained results indicate that the proposed method would provide an important tool to the field of passive image forensics. \'a9 2018 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Kurtosis histograms;  Median filter;  Passive image forensics;  Skewness;  Tamper detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 482\
Li, Y., Zhang, X., Li, X., Zhang, Y., Yang, J., He, Q.\
24825176900;57191626173;57192869628;57266989800;35112093500;7402118349;\
Mobile Phone Clustering from Speech Recordings Using Deep Representation and Spectral Clustering\
(2018) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 13 (4), art. no. 8113574, pp. 965-977. Cited 16 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85035146814&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2017.2774505&partnerID=40&md5=abf801dcd3bcf6a70a8f818d90cf3abc\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2017.2774505\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electronic and Information Engineering, South China University of Technology, Guangzhou, 510640, China\
ABSTRACT: Considerable attention has been paid to acquisition device recognition over the past decade in the forensic community, especially in digital image forensics. In contrast, acquisition device clustering from speech recordings is a new problem that aims to merge the recordings acquired by the same device into a single cluster without having prior information about the recordings and training classifiers in advance. In this paper, we propose a method for mobile phone clustering from speech recordings by using a new feature of deep representation and a spectral clustering algorithm. The new feature is learned by a deep auto-encoder network for representing the intrinsic trace left behind by each phone in the recordings, and spectral clustering is used to merge recordings acquired by the same phone into a single cluster. The impacts of the structures of the deep auto-encoder network on the performance of the new feature are discussed. Different features are compared with one another. The proposed method is compared with others and evaluated under special conditions. The results show that the proposed method is effective under these conditions and the new feature outperforms other features. \'a9 2005-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: acquisition device recognition;  Deep representation;  mobile phone clustering;  spectral clustering;  speech forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 483\
Tsai, M.-J., Yuadi, I.\
7403551509;55645671500;\
Digital forensics of microscopic images for printed source identification\
(2018) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 77 (7), pp. 8729-8758. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85019960799&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-017-4771-1&partnerID=40&md5=d80f305916ed21ea30fed24a4bf5a86d\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-017-4771-1\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Information Management, National Chiao Tung University, 1001 Ta-Hsueh Road, Hsin-Chu, 300, Taiwan; \
Department of Information and Library Science, Airlangga University, Jl. Airlangga 4-6, Surabaya, East Java  60286, Indonesia\
ABSTRACT: When trying to identify a printed forged document, examining digital evidence can prove to be a challenge. In this study, microscopic images are used for printed source identification due to their high magnification properties resulting in detailed texture and structure information. Prior research implemented a scanner as a digitizing technique to resolve very fine printed identification, but this technique provided limited information on the resolution and magnification of the sample. In contrast, the performance of microscopy techniques can retrieve the shape and surface texture of a printed document with differing micro structures among printer sources. To explore the relationship between source printers and images obtained by the microscope, the proposed approach utilizes image processing techniques and data exploration methods to calculate many important statistical features, including: Local Binary Pattern (LBP), Gray Level Co-occurrence Matrix (GLCM), Discrete Wavelet Transform (DWT), Spatial filters, the Wiener filter, the Gabor filter, Haralick, and SFTA features. Among the different set of features, the LBP approach achieves the highest identification rate and is significantly superior to other methods. As a result, the proposed technique using microscopic images achieves a high classification accuracy rate, which shows promising applications for real world digital forensics research. \'a9 2017, Springer Science+Business Media New York.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital image forensics;  Feature filters;  Local binary pattern (LBP);  Microscopic images;  Support vector machines (SVM)\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 484\
Wilson, R., Chi, H.\
57194650587;8888500200;\
A Framework for validating aimed mobile digital forensics evidences\
(2018) Proceedings of the ACMSE 2018 Conference, 2018-January, art. no. a17, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85052013455&doi=10.1145%2f3190645.3190695&partnerID=40&md5=dbb9a1fa14eb94dbb11fe457353f3a5f\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3190645.3190695\
AFFILIATIONS: Florida A and M University, Department of Computer and Information Sciences, Tallahassee, FL  32307-5100, United States\
ABSTRACT: The digital forensics tools, as well as the data collected by investigators, must ensure that integrity is kept throughout the investigation process, which is known as validation. Through this research project, an approach that validates mobile forensics tools and the data stored on the device will be developed. The goal of this research is to develop an approach that validates mobile forensics tools and the data stored on the device. An application will be implemented in a forensically sound manner using the approach, which will comprise of robust validation methods. This research will focus on iOS apps, whereas, the data collection is conducted on the iOS device and at the end of process, data is transferred to a laptop for validation. This tool is designed to assist in the validation of forensic evidence so that it holds admissibility in court and decrease the time spent acquiring data from a mobile device by leveraging an aimed approach. \'a9 2018 Association for Computing Machinery.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Admissibility;  Data acquisition;  Digital evidence;  Hash value;  IOS;  Mobile forensics;  Smartphone;  Validation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 485\
Sabir, M.F., Jones, J.H., Liu, H., Mbaziira, A.V.\
57200748323;56434888100;35210887000;56786505700;\
A non-algorithmic forensic approach for hiding data in image files\
(2018) ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, pp. 60-64. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85048324329&doi=10.1145%2f3193077.3193087&partnerID=40&md5=50d1fb00b32810a3fb09faa1368cc4fc\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3193077.3193087\
AFFILIATIONS: Catholic University of America, 620 Michigan Ave NE, Washington, DC  20064, United States; \
George Mason University, 4400 University Dr, Fairfax, VA  22030, United States; \
Marymount University, 1000 N Glebe Road, Arlington, VA  22207, United States\
ABSTRACT: Digital evidence continues to be an integral component in investigative and judicial processes. In digital files, information is stored in structured containers to enable software applications to process and render it for use. In this work, we extend prior research into non-algorithmic approaches to data hiding in files whose structural and physical properties are based on Office Extensible Markup Language (OOXML) by extending and applying our approach to digital image files. The file structure and properties of digital images is inherently different from OOXML files. In this paper, we propose a technique for creating persistent, stealthy, and benign tagging data in digital files. Our approach differs from current steganographic and cryptographic methods because we use a black box approach to find patterns of candidate file locations for inserting our digital tagging data. The results in this paper demonstrate that it is possible to empirically find locations suitable for storing data without knowledge of the files' internal structure, and to essentially hide persistent and benign tagging data in JPEG files. We observed that 31% of the inserted tagging data survives when our test image files are modified and saved or when opened and saved without modifying. Additional experiments revealed that hidden data in identified locations persists when operations like opening, closing, terminating, copying are performed on the image files. \'a9 2018 Association for Computing Machinery.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-Forensics;  Data Hiding;  Digital Forensics;  File Dead Space;  Images;  Stealthy Watermarking\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 486\
Moin, S.S., Islam, S.\
57202043198;55148532800;\
Benford's law for detecting contrast enhancement\
(2018) 2017 4th International Conference on Image Information Processing, ICIIP 2017, 2018-January, pp. 234-237. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85046933807&doi=10.1109%2fICIIP.2017.8313717&partnerID=40&md5=b9f4f83bea6cd66ac0d66d3595a2d261\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICIIP.2017.8313717\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Engineering, Zakir Hussain College of Engineering and Technology, Aligarh Muslim University, I-Aligarh, 202002, India\
ABSTRACT: Detection of contrast enhancement operations is a quite researched topic in the field of Digital Image Forensics as the forgers often use it to conceal the visual traces left by some malicious altering of the image, such as cut-and-paste. Benford's law is an important concept from the field of statistics and it has been found to be followed by a large number of natural phenomena. In this paper, a possibility of using Benford's law for the detection of contrast enhancement has been analysed and it is found that Benford's law based features show promising capability in differentiating between contrast enhanced images and unaltered images. Further, results demonstrate that it also withstands an existing anti-forensic technique used to hide the artifacts introduced by contrast enhancement operation. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: anti-forensics;  contrast enhancement;  image tampering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 487\
Novoz\'e1msk\'fd, A., \'8aorel, M.\
57190869096;15846700100;\
JPEG compression model in copy-move forgery detection\
(2018) Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Image Processing Theory, Tools and Applications, IPTA 2017, 2018-January, pp. 1-6. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85050670586&doi=10.1109%2fIPTA.2017.8310139&partnerID=40&md5=adbafb669067691a093f90fc5ede69d9\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IPTA.2017.8310139\
AFFILIATIONS: Czech Academy of Sciences, Institute of Information Theory and Automation, Pod Vod\'e1renskou v\uc0\u283 \'9e\'ed 4, Prague 8, 182 08, Czech Republic\
ABSTRACT: The integrity of visual data is important for the credibility of news media and especially when used as an evidence in court or during criminal investigation. The common way to manipulate image content is copying an object and pasting in another location of the same image. In this paper, we describe a new idea for the detection of this type of forgery in JPEG images, where the compression significantly degrades detection by popular algorithms. We derive a JPEG-based constraint that any pair of patches must satisfy to be considered a valid candidate for tampered area. We propose also efficient algorithm to verify the constraint that can be integrated into most existing methods. Experiments show significant improvement of detection, especially for difficult cases, such as small objects, objects covered by textureless areas and repeated patterns. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Copy-move forgery detection;  Image forensics;  Image tampering;  JPEG;  Quantization constraint set\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 488\
Hu, Z., Wang, S.\
56517268400;16204388400;\
Median filtering forensics based on discriminative multi-scale sparse coding\
(2018) 2017 IEEE Global Conference on Signal and Information Processing, GlobalSIP 2017 - Proceedings, 2018-January, pp. 141-145. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85048130684&doi=10.1109%2fGlobalSIP.2017.8308620&partnerID=40&md5=4c753536230312c4b39e0193b3d3903b\
\
DOI: 10.1109/GlobalSIP.2017.8308620\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electric Information and Electrical Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China\
ABSTRACT: Recent research has demonstrated that median filtering can be adopted as a postprocessing procedure to cover the tampering traces in many image forgeries. Hence, median filtering detection has become an important branch in digital image forensics. Most existing median filtering forensic techniques detect median filtering traces using handcraft features, but their performance degrades with smaller image size and stronger compression. To get more detailed features, automatic feature learning becomes a viable approach. In this paper, a discriminative multi-scale sparse coding based approach is proposed. This approach performs sparse coding representation in multi-scale patch domain to automatically extract distinct patterns caused by median filtering at different levels. To further improve the representative ability of sparse codes, discriminative dictionaries for various patch sizes are derived from labeled training patches of specific sizes. Based on the discriminative sparse codes, max-pooling is then employed over all corresponding patches to obtain representative features for each specific patch size. The final features are derived by concatenating all the features of various patch sizes. The experiment results show that the proposed approach out-performs three state-of-the-art approaches for median filter detection in most cases. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: discriminative dictionary;  max-pooling;  Median filtering forensics;  sparse coding\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 489\
Kebande, V.R., Venter, H.S.\
56410850700;7005841055;\
On digital forensic readiness in the cloud using a distributed agent-based solution: issues and challenges\
(2018) Australian Journal of Forensic Sciences, 50 (2), pp. 209-238. Cited 21 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84975122370&doi=10.1080%2f00450618.2016.1194473&partnerID=40&md5=e6170e6fffedd84ba4a1e6d745e7caaf\
\
DOI: 10.1080/00450618.2016.1194473\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: The need to perform digital investigations has, over the years, led to the exponential growth of the field of Digital Forensics (DF). However, quite a number of challenges face the act of proving\'96for purposes of Digital Forensic Readiness (DFR)\'96that an electronic event has occurred in cyberspace. The problem that this research addresses involves the challenges faced when an Agent-Based Solution (ABS) is used in the cloud to extract Potential Digital Evidence (PDE) for DFR purposes. Throughout the paper the authors have modified the functionality of an initially malicious botnet to act as a distributed forensic agent to conduct this process. The paper focuses on the general, technical and operational challenges that are encountered when trying to achieve DFR in the cloud environment. The authors finally propose a contribution by assessing the possible solutions from a general, technical and operational point of view. \'a9 2016 Australian Academy of Forensic Sciences.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: agent-based solution;  botnet;  challenges;  cloud;  digital forensic readiness;  forensic science;  issues\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 490\
Nemetz, S., Schmitt, S., Freiling, F.\
57201732877;55566362200;13007598800;\
A standardized corpus for SQLite database forensics\
(2018) Digital Investigation, 24, pp. S121-S130. Cited 12 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85045882144&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.01.015&partnerID=40&md5=c3b6c51ce642fc77115238f6b1d39b1a\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.01.015\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Science Department, Friedrich-Alexander-University, Erlangen-Nuremberg (FAU), Germany\
ABSTRACT: An increasing number of programs like browsers or smartphone apps are using SQLite3 databases to store application data. In many cases, such data is of high value during a forensic investigation. Therefore, various tools have been developed that claim to support rigorous forensic analysis of SQLite database files, claims that are not supported by appropriate evidence. We present a standardized corpus of SQLite files that can be used to evaluate and benchmark analysis methods and tools. The corpus contains databases which use special features of the SQLite file format or contain potential pitfalls to detect errors in forensic programs. We apply our corpus to a set of six available tools and evaluate their strengths and weaknesses. In particular, we show that none of these tools can reliably handle all corner cases of the SQLite3 format. \'a9 2018 Sebastian Nemetz, Sven Schmitt, Felix Freiling\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Database forensics;  Digital forensics;  Forensic corpora;  SQLite3\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 491\
Sandvik, J.-P., \'c5rnes, A.\
57201697940;12645858900;\
The reliability of clocks as digital evidence under low voltage conditions\
(2018) Digital Investigation, 24, pp. S10-S17. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85045851421&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.01.003&partnerID=40&md5=ab364330fe810efed2861ace3f74ba9c\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.01.003\
AFFILIATIONS: Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), Norway; \
National Criminal Investigation Service (Kripos), Norway; \
Telenor ASA, Norway\
ABSTRACT: Battery powered electronic devices like mobile phones are abundant in the world today, and such devices are often subject to digital forensic examinations. In this paper, we show that the assumptions that clocks are close to correct can be misleading under some circumstances, especially with failing batteries. One of four tested devices showed the clock jumped 8 and 12 years into the future when the battery connector voltage was held at 2.030 V and 2.100 V for about 9 s. Other devices showed a more expected behavior, where the clocks were slowly lagging until it was reset. In addition to this, we tested the precision of some methods of documenting the clock settings, and found most timestamps to be within reasonable precision for forensic use. Finally, we describe a model for the variability of the timestamps examined. \'a9 2018 Jens-Petter Sandvik, Andr\'e9 \'c5rnes\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Clock;  Clock documentation;  Digital forensics;  Low voltage errors;  Mobile forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 492\
Boll\'e9, T., Casey, E.\
57201692515;9843819800;\
Using computed similarity of distinctive digital traces to evaluate non-obvious links and repetitions in cyber-investigations\
(2018) Digital Investigation, 24, pp. S2-S9. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85045763259&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.01.002&partnerID=40&md5=4a3201d0f37683a1b83c3a6937b87086\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.01.002\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Lausanne, School of Criminal Justice, Lausanne-Dorigny, 1015, Switzerland\
ABSTRACT: This work addresses the challenge of discerning non-exact or non-obvious similarities between cybercrimes, proposing a new approach to finding linkages and repetitions across cases in a cyber-investigation context using near similarity calculation of distinctive digital traces. A prototype system was developed to test the proposed approach, and the system was evaluated using digital traces collected during actual cyber-investigations. The prototype system also links cases on the basis of exact similarity between technical characteristics. This work found that the introduction of near similarity helps to confirm already existing links, and exposes additional linkages between cases. Automatic detection of near similarities across cybercrimes gives digital investigators a better understanding of the criminal context and the actual phenomenon, and can reveal a series of related offenses. Using case data from 207 cyber-investigations, this study evaluated the effectiveness of computing similarity between cases by applying string similarity algorithms to email addresses. The Levenshtein algorithm was selected as the best algorithm to segregate similar email addresses from non-similar ones. This work can be extended to other digital traces common in cybercrimes such as URLs and domain names. In addition to finding linkages between related cybercrime at a technical level, similarities in patterns across cases provided insights at a behavioral level such as modus operandi (MO). This work also addresses the step that comes after the similarity computation, which is the linkage verification and the hypothesis formation. For forensic purposes, it is necessary to confirm that a near match with the similarity algorithm actually corresponds to a real relation between observed characteristics, and it is important to evaluate the likelihood that the disclosed similarity supports the hypothesis of the link between cases. This work recommends additional information, including certain technical, contextual and behavioral characteristics that could be collected routinely in cyber-investigations to support similarity computation and link evaluation. \'a9 2018 Timothy Boll\'e9, Eoghan Casey\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Case comparisons;  Case linkage;  Crime analysis;  Cyber-investigation;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Digital traces;  Email similarity;  Forensic intelligence;  Near similarity computation;  Similarity measures;  Trace similarity\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 493\
Otsuki, Y., Kawakoya, Y., Iwamura, M., Miyoshi, J., Ohkubo, K.\
57208073684;6505560486;57193695221;57201690055;7101789256;\
Building stack traces from memory dump of Windows x64\
(2018) Digital Investigation, 24, pp. S101-S110. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85045747019&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.01.013&partnerID=40&md5=b3db6dbc2fa8d3c3fe917eee83d1981f\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.01.013\
AFFILIATIONS: NTT Secure Platform Laboratories, Japan\
ABSTRACT: Stack traces play an important role in memory forensics as well as program debugging. This is because stack traces provide a history of executed code in a malware-infected host and this history could become a clue for forensic analysts to uncover the cause of an incident, i.e., what malware have actually done on the host. Nevertheless, existing research and tools for building stack traces for memory forensics are not well designed for the x64 environments, even though they have already become the most popular environment. In this paper, we introduce the design and implementation of our method for building stack traces from a memory dump of the Windows x64 environment. To build a stack trace, we retrieve a user context of the target thread from a memory dump for determining the start point of a stack trace, and then emulate stack unwinding referencing the metadata for exceptional handling for building the call stack of the thread. Even if the metadata are unavailable, which often occurs in a case of malicious software, we manage to produce the equivalent data by scanning the stack with a flow-based verification method. In this paper, we discuss the evaluation of our method through comparing the stack traces built with it with those built with WinDbg to show the accuracy of our method. We also explain some case studies using real malware to show the practicability of our method. \'a9 2018 Yuto Otsuki, Yuhei Kawakoya, Makoto Iwamura, Jun Miyoshi, Kazuhiko Ohkubo\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Memory forensics;  Stack trace;  Thread context;  Windows x64\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 494\
Palutke, R., Freiling, F.\
57193628492;13007598800;\
Styx: Countering robust memory acquisition\
(2018) Digital Investigation, 24, pp. S18-S28. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85045733587&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.01.004&partnerID=40&md5=b64b5483747c5ea917324ef4de29168d\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.01.004\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Friedrich-Alexander-Universit\'e4t Erlangen-N\'fcrnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany\
ABSTRACT: Images of main memory are an increasingly important piece of evidence in cybercrime investigations, especially against advanced malware threats, and software tools that dump memory during normal system operation are the most common way to acquire memory images today. Of all proposed methods, St\'fcttgen and Cohen's robust memory acquistion (as implemented in the pmem tool) can be considered the most advanced technique today. This paper presents Styx, of a proof-of-concept system that perfectly covers its traces against pmem and other tools that perform software-based forensic memory acquisition. Styx is implemented as a loadable kernel module and is able to subvert running 64-bit Linux systems using Intel's VT-x hardware virtualization extension, without requiring the system to reboot. It further uses the second address translation via Intel's EPT to hide behind hidden memory. While exhibiting the limitations of robust memory acquisition, it also shows the potential of undetectable forensic analysis software. \'a9 2018 Ralph Palutke, Felix Freiling\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 495 **SELECTED** SID: 26\
Freiling, F., H\'f6sch, L.\
13007598800;57201684329;\
Controlled experiments in digital evidence tampering\
(2018) Digital Investigation, 24, pp. S83-S92. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85045733328&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.01.011&partnerID=40&md5=80c382adbfbed097b485e93f227e5a27\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.01.011\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Friedrich-Alexander-Universit\'e4t Erlangen-N\'fcrnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany\
ABSTRACT: We report on a sequence of experiments performed with graduate level students on the tampering of digital evidence. The task of the study participants was to manipulate a given disk image so that it looked as if a website had been accessed and images downloaded in the past. Later, the same students had to distinguish their forgeries from a set of originals in which the images actually had been downloaded. During all parts of the experiment, efforts were recorded in project diaries. Overall, the results show that the tampering task was difficult since none of the forgeries was taken as an original. Furthermore, the analysis effort to detect forgeries consistently was below the effort to create the forgery even in the worst case scenario where the manipulator had full control over the evidence. It also required generally less effort to correctly classify an original than to correctly classify a forgery. Additionally, we derived results confirming that the effort to construct consistently manipulated evidence increases with decreasing control, i.e., the ability to precisely act upon the evidence. \'a9 2018 Felix Freiling, Leonhard H\'f6sch\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Digital evidence;  Forensic computing education\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 496\
Ho, S.M., Kao, D., Wu, W.-Y.\
22334228200;14037349500;57194061064;\
Following the breadcrumbs: Timestamp pattern identification for cloud forensics\
(2018) Digital Investigation, 24, pp. 79-94. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85044671060&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2017.12.001&partnerID=40&md5=1d00850ba008a75754c2a5d29924f666\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2017.12.001\
AFFILIATIONS: Florida State University, School of Information, Tallahassee, FL, United States; \
Central Police University, Department of Information Management, Taoyuan City, Taiwan\
ABSTRACT: This study explores the challenges of digital forensics investigation in file access, transfer and operations, and identifies file operational and behavioral patterns based on timestamps\'97in both the standalone as well as interactions between Windows NTFS and Ubuntu Ext4 filesystems. File-based metadata is observed, and timestamps across different cloud access behavioral patterns are compared and validated. As critical metadata information cannot be easily observed, a rigorous iterative approach was implemented to extract hidden, critical file attributes and timestamps. Direct observation and cross-sectional analysis were adopted to analyze timestamps, and to differentiate between patterns based on different types of cloud access operations. Fundamental observation rules and characteristics of file interaction in the cloud environment are derived as behavioral patterns for cloud operations. This study contributes to cloud forensics investigation of data breach incidents where the crime clues, characteristics and evidence of the incidents are collected, identified and analyzed. The results demonstrate the effectiveness of pattern identification for digital forensics across various types of cloud access operations. \'a9 2018 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Behavioral analysis;  Cloud forensics;  File metadata;  Pattern identification;  Timestamp\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 497 **SELECTED** SID: 27\
Pieterse, H., Olivier, M., van Heerden, R.\
55487079900;7101741068;6506752785;\
Smartphone data evaluation model: Identifying authentic smartphone data\
(2018) Digital Investigation, 24, pp. 11-24. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85042605079&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.01.017&partnerID=40&md5=4e3c4d3a2a338fec65b2cbbae809eafd\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.01.017\
AFFILIATIONS: Defence, Peace, Safety and Security, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, Pretoria, South Africa; \
Department of Computer Science, University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa; \
Meraka Institute, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, Pretoria, South Africa; \
School of Information and Communication Technology, Nelson Mandela University, Port Elizabeth, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: Ever improving smartphone technology, along with the widespread use of the devices to accomplish daily tasks, leads to the collection of rich sources of smartphone data. Smartphone data are, however, susceptible to change and can be altered intentionally or accidentally by end-users or installed applications. It becomes, therefore, important to establish the authenticity of smartphone data, confirming the data refer to actual events, before submitting the data as potential evidence. This paper focuses on data created by smartphone applications and the techniques that can be used to establish the authenticity of the data. To identify authentic smartphone data, a better understanding of the smartphone, related smartphone applications and the environment in which the smartphone operates are required. From the gathered knowledge and insight, requirements are identified that authentic smartphone data must adhere to. These requirements are captured in a new model to assist digital forensic professionals with the evaluation of smartphone data. Experiments, involving different smartphones, are conducted to determine the practicality of the new evaluation model with the identification of authentic smartphone data. The presented results provide preliminary evidence that the suggested model offers the necessary guidance to identify authentic smartphone data. \'a9 2018 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android;  Authenticity;  Digital forensics;  Evidence;  iOS;  Smartphone applications;  Smartphone data;  Smartphones\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 498\
Tsimperidis, I., Arampatzis, A., Karakos, A.\
57192906260;8246621200;56354713300;\
Keystroke dynamics features for gender recognition\
(2018) Digital Investigation, 24, pp. 4-10. Cited 16 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85041928537&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.01.018&partnerID=40&md5=299ca34ec4a563852be470667fa5076e\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.01.018\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, School of Engineering, Democritus University of Thrace, Greece\
ABSTRACT: This work attempts to recognize the gender of an unknown user with data derived only from keystroke dynamics. Keystroke dynamics, which can be described as the way a user is typing, usually amount to tens of thousands of features, each of them enclosing some information. The question that arises is which of these characteristics are most suitable for gender classification. To answer this question, a new dataset was created by recording users during the daily usage of their computer, the information gain of each keystroke dynamics feature was calculated, and five well-known classification models were used to test the feature sets. The results show that the gender of an unknown user can be identified with an accuracy of over 95% with only a few hundred features. This percentage, which is the highest found in the literature, is quite promising for the development of reliable systems that can alert an unsuspecting user to being a victim of deception. Moreover, having the ability to identify the gender of a user who types a certain piece of text is of significant importance in digital forensics. This holds true, as it could be the source of circumstantial evidence for \'93putting fingers on the keyboard\'94 and for arbitrating cases where the true origin of a message needs to be identified. \'a9 2018 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Data mining;  Digital forensics;  Feature selection;  Gender classification;  Information gain;  Keystroke dynamics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 499\
Horsman, G.\
55366646200;\
Framework for Reliable Experimental Design (FRED): A research framework to ensure the dependable interpretation of digital data for digital forensics\
(2018) Computers and Security, 73, pp. 294-306. Cited 16 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85037336298&doi=10.1016%2fj.cose.2017.11.009&partnerID=40&md5=5941452eef5af923e1cd44795449bdc8\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.cose.2017.11.009\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computing, Engineering and Technology, Faculty of Computer Science, The David Goldman, Informatics Centre, St Peter's Way, Sunderland, SR6 0DD, United Kingdom; \
Teesside University School of Science, Engineering and Design, Campus Heart, Southfield Rd, Middlesbrough, TS1 3BX, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: The establishment of fact forms the cornerstone of any forensic discipline, with digital analysis being no exception. Practitioners are under an obligation as expert witnesses to provide factual accounts of digital scenarios, which must be underpinned by robust knowledge and evidential findings. To achieve this level of reliability, investigatory research must be suitably planned, implemented and analysed in a way which instills confidence in the accuracy of any findings. This is particularly important as digital forensic organisations are now facing the impending requirement to have acquired ISO/IEC 17025 accreditation. This article proposes the Framework for Reliable Experimental Design (FRED) to support those engaged in the field of digital forensics research to contribute reliable, robust findings. FRED focuses on the underpinning procedures involved within undertaking the reverse engineering of digital data structures and the process of extracting and interpreting digital content in a reliable way. The proposed framework is designed to be a resource for those operating within the digital forensic field, both in industry and academia, to support and develop research best practice within the discipline. \'a9 2017 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Admissibility;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Expert evidence;  Research\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 500\
Yoon, J., Lee, S.\
57189099921;36063408400;\
A method and tool to recover data deleted from a MongoDB\
(2018) Digital Investigation, 24, pp. 106-120. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85036650332&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2017.11.001&partnerID=40&md5=c860b98d8ab034744c4fcd88a6885635\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2017.11.001\
AFFILIATIONS: Center for Information Security Technologies (CIST), Korea University, Anam-Dong, Seongbuk-Gu, Seoul, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: DBMS stores an important data, which is one of the important analytical subjects for analysis in digital forensics. The technique of recovering deleted data from the DBMS plays an important role in finding the evidence in forensic investigation cases. Although relational DBMS is used as important data storage until now, NoSQL DBMSs is used more often due to the growing pursue of Big Data. This increases the potential to analyze a NoSQL DMBS in forensic cases. In reality, data from approximately 26,000 servers has been deleted by a massive ransom attack on vulnerable MongoDB server. Therefore, investigation of internal structure analysis and deleted data recovery techniques of NoSQL DBMS is essential. In this paper, we research the recovery method on deleted data in MongoDB that is widely used. We have analyzed the internal structures of the WiredTiger and MMAPv1 storage engines, which are the MongoDB's disk-based storage engines. Moreover, we have implemented the recovery algorithm as a tool as well as have evaluated its performance on real and self-generated experiment data. \'a9 2017 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Database forensics;  MongoDB;  NoSQL database forensics;  Recovery of deleted data from database\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 501\
Jung, D.-J., Lee, H.-K.\
55314441400;7501475723;\
Frame-rate conversion detection based on periodicity of motion artifact\
(2018) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 77 (5), pp. 6095-6116. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85014756217&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-017-4519-y&partnerID=40&md5=d533f03f916966d9e08daf217349af57\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-017-4519-y\
AFFILIATIONS: Agency for Defense Development, P.O.Box 35, Yusong-Gu Daejoen, 34186, South Korea; \
School of Computing, KAIST, 291 Daehak-Ro, Yusong-Gu Daejoen, 34141, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: With the advances in digital video technology, it is becoming easier to forge the digital video without introducing any artificial visual trace. The temporal domain of the digital videos is one of the main targets of video tampering, and video frame-rate conversion is one of the common operations for temporal video tampering such as temporal splicing and video speed adjustment. This operation necessarily accommodates temporal interpolation that introduces the periodic motion artifact on the motion trajectories. In this paper, the frame-rate converted video detection method is proposed based on the motion artifact. The experimental results demonstrated the performance of the proposed method through the extensive experiments on 1300 original videos and 18,000 frame-rate converted videos in uncompressed and H.264/AVC formats. Especially, for the nearest neighbor and motion-based interpolation, the proposed method could detect over than 93.35% of the frame-rate up-converted videos while exhibiting 0.01 false positive rate. \'a9 2017, Springer Science+Business Media New York.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Frame-rate conversion;  Motion artifact;  Video forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 502\
Subrahmanyeswara Rao, B.\
57214130625;\
A fuzzy fusion approach for modified contrast enhancement based image forensics against attacks\
(2018) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 77 (5), pp. 5241-5261. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85014112665&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-017-4426-2&partnerID=40&md5=0ed31129e5f9028447f4babc0248d202\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-017-4426-2\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, MLR Institute of Technology, Hyderabad, India\
ABSTRACT: In today\'92s digital age the trustworthy towards image is distorting because of malicious forgery images. The issues related to the multimedia security have led to the research focus towards tampering detection. The main objective of the work is to develop robust and forensic detection framework against post processing. It is also essential to enhance the security against attacks. In this paper, a Modified Contrast Enhancement based Forensics (MCEF) method based on Fuzzy Fusion is proposed against post-processing activity. First, we check for the histogram peaks and gaps as a result of contrast enhancement which is used in the latest technique. From the standpoint of attackers, we use two types of attacks, CE trace hiding attack and CE trace forging attack, which could invalidate the forensic detector and fabricate two types of forensic errors, consequently. The CE trace hiding attack is implemented by integrating local random dithering into the form of pixel value mapping. The CE trace forging attack is proposed by modifying the grey level histogram of a target pixel region to fraudulent peak/gap artifacts. Then both attacks are added to enhanced images as a post processing activity. As a result the gaps get disappeared, but introduced sudden peaks. Then, feature selection methods in conjunction with fuzzy fusion approach is suggested to enhance the robustness of tamper detection methods. The threshold value for contrast detection is increased, so we can identify the contrast enhancement. The Artificial Neural Network (ANN) is used instead of SVM, it increases the robustness and accuracy of the digital images. The proposed methodology will be implemented using MATLAB and validated by comparing with the conventional techniques. \'a9 2017, Springer Science+Business Media New York.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Artificial neural network;  CE trace forging attack;  CE trace hiding attack;  Contrast enhancement;  Fuzzy fusion\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 503\
Athulya, M.S., Vinayshankar, Sathidevi, P.S.\
54394929700;57201886874;6506570149;\
Mitigating effects of noise in Forensic Speaker Recognition\
(2018) Proceedings of the 2017 International Conference on Wireless Communications, Signal Processing and Networking, WiSPNET 2017, 2018-January, pp. 1602-1606. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85046358875&doi=10.1109%2fWiSPNET.2017.8300031&partnerID=40&md5=4c15fb558b653a572d7971eea686720e\
\
DOI: 10.1109/WiSPNET.2017.8300031\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of ECE, National Institute of Technology, Calicut, India\
ABSTRACT: Among the different biometrics, speech has a significant role in forensics, since it can become a strong evidence in most of the crimes happening today. In Forensic Speaker Recognition (FSR), this speech evidence is used to recognize its speaker. This speech may be unpredictably distorted compared to the speech samples available for other speaker recognition applications. Some of the major distortions affecting the forensic speech quality are noise, speech coding, channel effects, multiple speakers, voice disguise, voice forgery, duration of the speech etc. A forensic speaker verification system which is highly robust to noise is designed and implemented in this paper. Robustness is achieved by employing an iterative threshold based Voice Activity Detector (VAD) in the preprocessing stage and Gammatone Frequency Cepstral Coefficients (GFCC) as the feature set. Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM) which are adapted from a Universal Background Model (UBM) is employed for classification. Performance of the proposed FSR is evaluated under different SNR conditions using equal error rate (EER). Verification accuracy of the proposed system is analysed and compared using Linear Predictive Coding (LPC) coefficients and Mel Frequency Cepstral Coefficients (MFCC) also. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forensic speaker recognition;  Gammatone frequency cepstral coefficients;  Gaussian mixture model-universal background model;  Spectral subtraction;  Voice activity detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 504\
Lameri, S., Bondi, L., Bestagini, P., Tubaro, S.\
56685573100;56928095700;21638596100;7003411765;\
Near-duplicate video detection exploiting noise residual traces\
(2018) Proceedings - International Conference on Image Processing, ICIP, 2017-September, pp. 1497-1501. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85045333642&doi=10.1109%2fICIP.2017.8296531&partnerID=40&md5=46c14a03cd7e08586a69c6be95bf62c6\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICIP.2017.8296531\
AFFILIATIONS: Dipartimento di Elettronica, Informazione e Bioingegneria, Politecnico di Milano, Piazza Leonardo da Vinci 32, Milano, 20133, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Video phylogeny research about joint analysis of correlated video sequences has shown the possibility of developing interesting forensic applications. As an example, it is possible to study the provenance of near-duplicate (ND) video sequences, i.e., videos generated from the same original one through content preserving transformations. To perform this kind of analysis, accurate detection of ND videos is paramount. In this paper, we propose an algorithm for ND video detection and clustering in a challenging setup. Specifically, we analyze a scenario in which many videos, depicting the same event, are recorded by different users. This situation is critical as non-ND videos acquired from very close viewpoints run the risk of being incorrectly detected as ND. The proposed approach leverages on robust hashing properties and the concept of sensor noise traces. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Near-duplicate videos;  Semantically similar videos;  Video forensics;  Video phylogeny\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 505\
Chen, C., Zhao, X., Stamm, M.C.\
57189029493;57192545235;34870520200;\
Detecting anti-forensic attacks on demosaicing-based camera model identification\
(2018) Proceedings - International Conference on Image Processing, ICIP, 2017-September, pp. 1512-1516. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85045312345&doi=10.1109%2fICIP.2017.8296534&partnerID=40&md5=86d4feae8a2ac7117f0b93cf0d4378e3\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICIP.2017.8296534\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA  19104, United States\
ABSTRACT: Many forensic algorithms have been developed to determine the model of an image's source camera by examining traces left by the camera's demosaicing algorithm. An anti-forensic attacker, however, can falsify these traces by maliciously using existing forensic techniques to estimate one camera's demosaicing filter, then use these estimates to re-demosaic an image captured by a different camera. Currently, there is no known defense against this attack, which is capable of fooling existing camera model identification algorithms. In this paper, we propose a new method to detect if an image's source camera model has been anti-forensically falsified. Our algorithm operates by characterizing the different content-independent local pixel relationships that are introduced by both authentic demosaicing algorithms and anti-forensic attacks. Experimental results show that our algorithm can detect an anti-forensic attack with over 99% accuracy, is robust to JPEG compression, and can even identify the true source camera model in certain circumstances. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-Forensics;  Demosaicing Traces;  Geometric Co-occurrence Patterns;  Multimedia Forensics;  Source Camera Model Falsification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 506\
Mullan, P., Cozzolino, D., Verdoliva, L., Riess, C.\
57038489900;55440439700;6506573720;23393831200;\
Residual-based forensic comparison of video sequences\
(2018) Proceedings - International Conference on Image Processing, ICIP, 2017-September, pp. 1507-1511. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85045303482&doi=10.1109%2fICIP.2017.8296533&partnerID=40&md5=a9729e811e5b09df6ca4389148bfa976\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICIP.2017.8296533\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Science 1, University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Martensstr. 3, Erlangen, 91058, Germany; \
DIETI, University Federico II of Naples, Via Claudio 21, Napoli, 80125, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Video content can be acquired with off-the-shelf hardware, and is thus increasingly used to record events. With the growing role of video data for communicating to a large audience, we need tools to ensure the authenticity of video content. However, until now, only few methods exist to forensically analyze videos. In this work, we propose a method for statistically comparing two video sequences. Per sequence, intra- and inter-frame residuals are computed. Optical flow is used to compensate for motion artifacts on inter-frame residuals. We use one sequence to build a statistical model, and compare it to the second sequence. From a forensic perspective, the proposed method enables two applications. First, manipulations can be accurately localized if both sequences are subsequences of the same video. Second, source cameras can be distinguished if both sequences stem from different videos. The proposed method is evaluated on collected smartphone data and green-screen splices. Further, it is quantitatively compared to both a recent PRNU-based approach and a technique based on autoencoders. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Chroma Keying;  Noise Residuals;  Optical Flow;  SPAM Features;  Video Forensics;  Video Splicing\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 507\
Nieto, A., Rios, R., Lopez, J.\
16239350900;52364670700;26643374800;\
Iot-forensics meets privacy: Towards cooperative digital investigations\
(2018) Sensors (Switzerland), 18 (2), art. no. 492, . Cited 33 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85041804249&doi=10.3390%2fs18020492&partnerID=40&md5=9f0b1f04d7d75cb3d495ccc8e8d9acf5\
\
DOI: 10.3390/s18020492\
AFFILIATIONS: Network, Information and Computer Security (NICS) Lab, University of Malaga, Malaga, 29071, Spain\
ABSTRACT: IoT-Forensics is a novel paradigm for the acquisition of electronic evidence whose operation is conditioned by the peculiarities of the Internet of Things (IoT) context. As a branch of computer forensics, this discipline respects the most basic forensic principles of preservation, traceability, documentation, and authorization. The digital witness approach also promotes such principles in the context of the IoT while allowing personal devices to cooperate in digital investigations by voluntarily providing electronic evidence to the authorities. However, this solution is highly dependent on the willingness of citizens to collaborate and they may be reluctant to do so if the sensitive information within their personal devices is not sufficiently protected when shared with the investigators. In this paper, we provide the digital witness approach with a methodology that enables citizens to share their data with some privacy guarantees. We apply the PRoFIT methodology, originally defined for IoT-Forensics environments, to the digital witness approach in order to unleash its full potential. Finally, we show the feasibility of a PRoFIT-compliant digital witness with two use cases. \'a9 2018 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital witness;  IoT-forensics;  Privacy\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 508\
Zhao, Y.-T., Li, Q.-B., Zhang, G.-M., Cheng, S.-J.\
57201778367;25634387000;57207176911;57201773937;\
Honeypot-like real-time memory forensics based on virtual machine monitor\
(2018) Zhejiang Daxue Xuebao (Gongxue Ban)/Journal of Zhejiang University (Engineering Science), 52 (2), pp. 387-397. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85046092848&doi=10.3785%2fj.issn.1008-973X.2018.02.022&partnerID=40&md5=beb469a4b57ac8cb164747f01057202e\
\
DOI: 10.3785/j.issn.1008-973X.2018.02.022\
AFFILIATIONS: State Key Laboratory of Mathematical Engineering and Advanced Computing, PLA Information Engineering University, Zhengzhou, 450001, China; \
Science and Technology on Information Assurance Laboratory, Beijing, 100072, China; \
People's Procuratorate of Henan Province, Zhengzhou, 450000, China\
ABSTRACT: Traditional image-analysis based memory forensics technologies face two issues: one is that the time for extracting memory images is too long, the other is that transient memory attacks cannot be effectively intercepted. A honeypot-like real-time memory forensics method RTMF was proposed to solve these issues. Virtual machine monitor (VMM) was used to purposefully extract memory fragments, then obtained data were semantically reconstructed to get the OS-level semantic information. Extended page table (EPT) mechanism was applied to set access permissions for key memory pages, and these pages were treated as \'93honeypot\'94. EPT violation would be triggered by the violated access aiming at the honeypot, and the guest OS would be trapped in VMM. Thus memory attacks could be captured in real time. Results show that RTMF can record the attack-modifying history on memory and trace the attacker after the memory attack is found. The MicroBench tests results show that the performance overhead RTMF introduces is acceptable. \'a9 2018, Zhejiang University Press. All right reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Attacker;  Honeypot;  Memory behavior;  Page access permission;  Real-time forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 509\
Lin, X., Li, J.-H., Wang, S.-L., Liew, A.-W.-C., Cheng, F., Huang, X.-S.\
56289921200;56103299700;16204388400;7005648281;57201432099;57201433076;\
Recent Advances in Passive Digital Image Security Forensics: A Brief Review\
(2018) Engineering, 4 (1), pp. 29-39. Cited 40 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85044767918&doi=10.1016%2fj.eng.2018.02.008&partnerID=40&md5=e2099cc2627e1a439cd916901ef58c3e\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.eng.2018.02.008\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Cyber Security, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China; \
School of Information and Communication Technology, Gold Coast Campus, Griffith University, Southport, QLD  4222, Australia\
ABSTRACT: With the development of sophisticated image editing and manipulation tools, the originality and authenticity of a digital image is usually hard to determine visually. In order to detect digital image forgeries, various kinds of digital image forensics techniques have been proposed in the last decade. Compared with active forensics approaches that require embedding additional information, passive forensics approaches are more popular due to their wider application scenario, and have attracted increasing academic and industrial research interests. Generally speaking, passive digital image forensics detects image forgeries based on the fact that there are certain intrinsic patterns in the original image left during image acquisition or storage, or specific patterns in image forgeries left during the image storage or editing. By analyzing the above patterns, the originality of an image can be authenticated. In this paper, a brief review on passive digital image forensic methods is presented in order to provide a comprehensive introduction on recent advances in this rapidly developing research area. These forensics approaches are divided into three categories based on the various kinds of traces they can be used to track\'97that is, traces left in image acquisition, traces left in image storage, and traces left in image editing. For each category, the forensics scenario, the underlying rationale, and state-of-the-art methodologies are elaborated. Moreover, the major limitations of the current image forensics approaches are discussed in order to point out some possible research directions or focuses in these areas. \'a9 2018 The Authors\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital image forensics;  Image-tampering detection;  Multimedia security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 510\
Amato, F., Barolli, L., Cozzolino, G., Mazzeo, A., Moscato, F.\
57208073345;6601911059;7003415482;7004438897;13405037300;\
Ect: A novel architecture for evidence collection in forensic investigation\
(2018) Lecture Notes on Data Engineering and Communications Technologies, 13, pp. 325-334. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85090372917&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-69835-9_31&partnerID=40&md5=618cb9ccd0f843828b0a3271bbb0740d\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-69835-9_31\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Napoli \'93Federico II\'94, Via Claudio, 21, Napoli, 80125, Italy; \
Department of Information and Communication Engineering, Fukuoka Institute of Technology (FIT), 3-30-1 Wajiro-higashi, Fukuoka, Higashi-ku, 811-0295, Japan; \
DiSciPol, University of Campania Luigi Vanvitelli, Viale Ellittico 31, Caserta, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Computers, smart-phones, wearable devices, and more generally any piece of technology that processes information can be used in a criminal way. Forensics investigation is becoming a crucial process to acquire and secure information and data that is stored on, received or transmitted by an electronic device for further examination during a trial. In this work, we adopt semantics-based technologies to compose a methodology supporting forensics investigations during the analysis process. Proposed methodology aims to infer hidden correlations among different informative sources, for example, integrating in a unique coherent stream the results of different forensic tools. We implement this methodology through a system able to generate additional assertion to data generated by forensics tools during extraction processes. Thanks to their formal representation, assertions enable enhanced retrieval and reasoning capabilities and so more efficient access to information resources. In order to prove effectiveness of the approach, we show some experimental results obtained in a simulated case of a digital investigation examination, evaluating recall and precision of query results, asking for a set of given evidences considered as ground truth. \'a9 Springer International Publishing AG 2018.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Evidence;  Digital Forensics;  Digital Investigation;  Reference Domain Ontology;  SWRL Rules\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 511\
Amato, F., Barolli, L., Cozzolino, G., Mazzeo, A., Moscato, F.\
57208073345;6601911059;7003415482;7004438897;13405037300;\
Improving results of forensics analysis by semantic-based suggestion system\
(2018) Lecture Notes on Data Engineering and Communications Technologies, 17, pp. 956-967. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85084504056&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-75928-9_88&partnerID=40&md5=95fdc32ae36224f8425ed26f9d0d01c0\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-75928-9_88\
AFFILIATIONS: DIETI, Universit\'e1 degli Studi di Napoli \'93Federico II\'94, via Claudio 21, Naples, Italy; \
Fukuoka Institute of Technology (FIT), Wajiro-higashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka, Japan; \
Universit\'e1 degli Studi della Campania, viale Ellittico 31, Caserta, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Nowadays, more than ever, digital forensics activities are involved in any criminal, civil or military investigation and they are primary to support cyber-security. Detectives use a many techniques and proprietary forensic software to analyze (copies of) digital devices, in order to discover hidden, deleted, encrypted, and damaged files or folders. Any evidence found is carefully analysed and documented in \'93finding reports\'94 that are used during lawsuits. Forensics aim at discovering and analysing patterns of fraudulent activities. In this work, we propose a methodology that supports detectives in correlating evidences found by different forensic tools and we apply it to a framework able to semantically annotate data generated by forensics tools. Annotations enable more effective access to relevant information and enhanced retrieval and reasoning. \'a9 Springer International Publishing AG 2018.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Evidence;  Digital Forensics;  Digital Investigation;  Forensic Tools;  SWRL Rules\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 512 **SELECTED** SID: 28 **UNAVAILABLE**\
Vadlamudi, D., Thirupathi Rao, K., Vidyullatha, P., RajasekharReddy, B.\
56278339400;57204100822;56586053000;57215917639;\
Analysis on digital forensics challenges and anti-forensics techniques in cloud computing\
(2018) International Journal of Engineering and Technology(UAE), 7 (2.7 Special Issue 7), pp. 1072-1075. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85077495880&partnerID=40&md5=b2b8cf8573fafd8c8f647ca5be85419e\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Koneru Lakshmaiah Education Foundation, Vaddeswaram, Guntur, Andhra Pradesh, India\
ABSTRACT: In the modern life, there is a rapid increase in the usage of the technology. One reason of increasing the technology is usage of cloud. The mobile devices or any other technological devices mainly depend on cloud. The cloud can be accessible from anywhere. Cloud forensic process had introduced to help the investigators to find the evidence when the criminal attacks the cloud and to maintain the integrity and security for the data stored in the cloud. The increasing in the criminal attacks in cloud, made the investigators to find the latest methods for the forensic investigation process. Similarly in the same way the criminals also discover new ways to hide the source of evidences. This causes damage to the investigation process and is called anti-forensics. To hide the sources anti-forensic techniques are used and research must be done against the anti-forensics techniques in cloud environment. In this paper we focused mainly on detailed study on various challenges in cloud forensic and anti-forensic techniques. \'a9 2018 Authors.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-Forensics;  Cloud computing;  Cloud forensic;  Cloud forensic challenges and cloud forensic solutions\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 513\
Mitchell, I., Ferriera, J., Anandaraja, T., Hara, S.\
55734339500;57212065482;57193013651;56446221900;\
Dap
\f3 \uc0\u8704 
\f0 : Deconstruct and preserve for all: a procedure for the preservation of digital evidence on solid state drives and traditional storage media\
(2018) Advanced Sciences and Technologies for Security Applications, pp. 275-287. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85075841847&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-97181-0_13&partnerID=40&md5=86f09bc989005317dcd6c499605ea704\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-97181-0_13\
AFFILIATIONS: Middlesex University, London, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Human error is often a cause of contamination of potential digital evidence and can jeopardise an entire case. One of the biggest problems is the data acquisition stage that requires the Digital Forensic Analyst to make bit-for-bit copies of the device seized. This procedure, despite using write-blockers, can go wrong. The proposed Deconstruct and Preserve for all (DaP
\f3 \uc0\u8704 
\f0 ) aims at mitigating the risk involved in exposing any data to these procedures and ensures that third parties get an exact match; the process works on SSDs, GPT formatted devices, and other traditional formats, e.g. HDD. The results show a GPT TRIM enabled SSD imaged multiple times produces verification of matched hashes. With these results, it is proposed that DaP
\f3 \uc0\u8704 
\f0  should be considered as a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) when completing data acquisition. \'a9 Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2018.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 514\
Alhaboby, Z.A., Alhaboby, D., Al-Khateeb, H.M., Epiphaniou, G., Ismail, D.K.B., Jahankhani, H., Pillai, P.\
57191446505;57212063217;55339456900;36052693100;35743351500;55970576100;7102162572;\
Understanding the cyber-victimisation of people with long term conditions and the need for collaborative forensics-enabled disease management programmes\
(2018) Advanced Sciences and Technologies for Security Applications, pp. 227-250. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85075840806&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-97181-0_11&partnerID=40&md5=e09bca811fa11840b7e8a07d83c91727\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-97181-0_11\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute for Health Research, University of Bedfordshire, Luton, United Kingdom; \
Faculty of Medicine, University of Duisburg-Essen, Duisburg, Germany; \
Wolverhampton Cyber Research Institute, University of Wolverhampton, Wolverhampton, United Kingdom; \
QAHE and Northumbria University, Northumbria University London, London, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Research shows that people with long term conditions and disabilities are frequently labelled as vulnerable, and commonly victimised online. They require instrumental support to understand their conditions and empower them to manage their own treatment in everyday life. However, additional short and long term consequences related to cyber-victimisation could intensify existing psychological and health complications. For instance, \'91distress\'92 as a commonly reported impact of cyber-victimisation could theoretically lead to neurohormonal changes in the blood, increasing cortisol, catecholamine and insulin secretion resulting in increased blood glucose, heartbeat, blood pressure, urination and other changes. Therefore, in this study we demonstrate the need and explain the means towards extending support and risk assessment systems and procedures to cover the collection and preservation of incidents reported by individuals. This can be used to support third-party interventions such as taking a legal action in cases where the impact of cyber-victimisation is seen to escalate and worsen. As such, we first define vulnerable groups with long term conditions and provide a review of the impact of various types of cyber-victimisation on their health management. Then, we discuss how Disease Management Programmes (DMP) developed over time to include web-based applications as an example of existing cost-effective approaches to improve the quality of healthcare provided to people with long term conditions. We then demonstrate the added value of incorporating forensics readiness to enable Police intervention, support the victim\'92s eligibility for extended instrumental support from national health services. Finally, this level of documentation offers an opportunity to implement more accurate methods to assess risk associated with victimisation. \'a9 Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2018.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Chronic conditions;  Data integrity;  Digital forensics;  Disability;  eHealth;  Evidence;  Incident response;  Multidisciplinary;  Online Coaches\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 515\
Geradts, Z.\
6603940596;\
Forensic challenges on multimedia analytics, big data and the internet of things\
(2018) ICETE 2018 - Proceedings of the 15th International Joint Conference on e-Business and Telecommunications, 2, pp. 5-8. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85071432750&doi=10.5220%2f0007239400000000&partnerID=40&md5=dc453e73abbf91a4b5b695339a782d5c\
\
DOI: 10.5220/0007239400000000\
AFFILIATIONS: Netherlands Forensic Institute, Ministry of Security and Justice, Laan van Ypenburg 6, Den Haag, 2497 GB, Netherlands; \
Institute of Informatics and CLHC, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands\
ABSTRACT: The speed of change in the digital world is challenging for forensic investigations. New devices are developed rapidly and the Internet of Things is also emerging. Getting access to devices is getting more complicated due to stronger encryption. The other issue is that the amount of multimedia data is expanding rapidly and finding relevant evidence is often a challenge. Several challenges can be handled by developing big data analysis platforms that are flexible in incorporating new methods and using artificial intelligence as well as deep learning. Since evidence must be used in court, the validation of the results is important to explain the possibilities and limitations of the forensic analysis. Copyright \'a9 2018 by SCITEPRESS \'96 Science and Technology Publications, Lda. All rights reserved\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Deep Learning;  Digital Evidence;  Forensic Data Science;  IoT;  Multimedia;  Multimodal;  Video Analytics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 516\
Sandvik, J.-P., \'c5rnes, A.\
57201697940;12645858900;\
The reliability of clocks as digital evidence under low voltage conditions\
(2018) DFRWS 2018 EU - Proceedings of the 5th Annual DFRWS Europe, pp. S10-S17. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068729353&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.01.003&partnerID=40&md5=27216f37d9a534cc0e38b50bc772cdaa\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.01.003\
AFFILIATIONS: Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), Norway; \
National Criminal Investigation Service (Kripos), Norway; \
Telenor ASA, Norway\
ABSTRACT: Battery powered electronic devices like mobile phones are abundant in the world today, and such devices are often subject to digital forensic examinations. In this paper, we show that the assumptions that clocks are close to correct can be misleading under some circumstances, especially with failing batteries. One of four tested devices showed the clock jumped 8 and 12 years into the future when the battery connector voltage was held at 2.030 V and 2.100 V for about 9 s. Other devices showed a more expected behavior, where the clocks were slowly lagging until it was reset. In addition to this, we tested the precision of some methods of documenting the clock settings, and found most timestamps to be within reasonable precision for forensic use. Finally, we describe a model for the variability of the timestamps examined. \'a9 2018 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Clock;  Clock documentation;  Digital forensics;  Low voltage errors;  Mobile forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 517\
Boll\'e9, T., Casey, E.\
57201692515;9843819800;\
Using computed similarity of distinctive digital traces to evaluate non-obvious links and repetitions in cyber-investigations\
(2018) DFRWS 2018 EU - Proceedings of the 5th Annual DFRWS Europe, pp. S2-S9. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068723819&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.01.002&partnerID=40&md5=e9aee15333c01a223304dcb8bfb256e8\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.01.002\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Lausanne, School of Criminal Justice, Lausanne-Dorigny, 1015, Switzerland\
ABSTRACT: This work addresses the challenge of discerning non-exact or non-obvious similarities between cybercrimes, proposing a new approach to finding linkages and repetitions across cases in a cyber-investigation context using near similarity calculation of distinctive digital traces. A prototype system was developed to test the proposed approach, and the system was evaluated using digital traces collected during actual cyber-investigations. The prototype system also links cases on the basis of exact similarity between technical characteristics. This work found that the introduction of near similarity helps to confirm already existing links, and exposes additional linkages between cases. Automatic detection of near similarities across cybercrimes gives digital investigators a better understanding of the criminal context and the actual phenomenon, and can reveal a series of related offenses. Using case data from 207 cyber-investigations, this study evaluated the effectiveness of computing similarity between cases by applying string similarity algorithms to email addresses. The Levenshtein algorithm was selected as the best algorithm to segregate similar email addresses from non-similar ones. This work can be extended to other digital traces common in cybercrimes such as URLs and domain names. In addition to finding linkages between related cybercrime at a technical level, similarities in patterns across cases provided insights at a behavioral level such as modus operandi (MO). This work also addresses the step that comes after the similarity computation, which is the linkage verification and the hypothesis formation. For forensic purposes, it is necessary to confirm that a near match with the similarity algorithm actually corresponds to a real relation between observed characteristics, and it is important to evaluate the likelihood that the disclosed similarity supports the hypothesis of the link between cases. This work recommends additional information, including certain technical, contextual and behavioral characteristics that could be collected routinely in cyber-investigations to support similarity computation and link evaluation. \'a9 2018 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Case comparisons;  Case linkage;  Crime analysis;  Cyber-investigation;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Digital traces;  Email similarity;  Forensic intelligence;  Near similarity computation;  Similarity measures;  Trace similarity\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 518\
Otsuki, Y., Kawakoya, Y., Iwamura, M., Miyoshi, J., Ohkubo, K.\
57208073684;6505560486;57193695221;57201690055;7101789256;\
Building stack traces from memory dump of Windows x64\
(2018) DFRWS 2018 EU - Proceedings of the 5th Annual DFRWS Europe, pp. S101-S110. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068714220&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.01.013&partnerID=40&md5=0f7d92c6587c8b05c5d337d1297333fd\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.01.013\
AFFILIATIONS: NTT Secure Platform Laboratories, Japan\
ABSTRACT: Stack traces play an important role in memory forensics as well as program debugging. This is because stack traces provide a history of executed code in a malware-infected host and this history could become a clue for forensic analysts to uncover the cause of an incident, i.e., what malware have actually done on the host. Nevertheless, existing research and tools for building stack traces for memory forensics are not well designed for the x64 environments, even though they have already become the most popular environment. In this paper, we introduce the design and implementation of our method for building stack traces from a memory dump of the Windows x64 environment. To build a stack trace, we retrieve a user context of the target thread from a memory dump for determining the start point of a stack trace, and then emulate stack unwinding referencing the metadata for exceptional handling for building the call stack of the thread. Even if the metadata are unavailable, which often occurs in a case of malicious software, we manage to produce the equivalent data by scanning the stack with a flow-based verification method. In this paper, we discuss the evaluation of our method through comparing the stack traces built with it with those built with WinDbg to show the accuracy of our method. We also explain some case studies using real malware to show the practicability of our method. \'a9 2018 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Memory forensics;  Stack trace;  Thread context;  Windows x64\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 519\
Palutke, R., Freiling, F.\
57193628492;13007598800;\
Styx: Countering robust memory acquisition\
(2018) DFRWS 2018 EU - Proceedings of the 5th Annual DFRWS Europe, pp. S18-S28. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068700450&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.01.004&partnerID=40&md5=5d11837050730d812bcd48ef8779e4eb\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.01.004\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Friedrich-Alexander-Universit\'e4t Erlangen-N\'fcrnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany\
ABSTRACT: Images of main memory are an increasingly important piece of evidence in cybercrime investigations, especially against advanced malware threats, and software tools that dump memory during normal system operation are the most common way to acquire memory images today. Of all proposed methods, St\'fcttgen and Cohen's robust memory acquistion (as implemented in the pmem tool) can be considered the most advanced technique today. This paper presents Styx, of a proof-of-concept system that perfectly covers its traces against pmem and other tools that perform software-based forensic memory acquisition. Styx is implemented as a loadable kernel module and is able to subvert running 64-bit Linux systems using Intel's VT-x hardware virtualization extension, without requiring the system to reboot. It further uses the second address translation via Intel's EPT to hide behind hidden memory. While exhibiting the limitations of robust memory acquisition, it also shows the potential of undetectable forensic analysis software. \'a9 2018 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of DFRWS.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 520\
DFRWS 2018 EU - Proceedings of the 5th Annual DFRWS Europe\
(2018) DFRWS 2018 EU - Proceedings of the 5th Annual DFRWS Europe, 140 p. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068696521&partnerID=40&md5=1763bb98630d088ee990633b0fec735c\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 15 papers. The topics discussed include: a comparative study on data protection legislations and government standards to implement digital forensic readiness as mandatory requirement; a standardized corpus for SQLite database forensics; anti-forensics in ext4: on secrecy and usability of timestamp-based data hiding; building stack traces from memory dump of Windows x64; controlled experiments in digital evidence tampering; data-driven approach for automatic telephony threat analysis and campaign detection; educating judges, prosecutors and lawyers in the use of digital forensic experts; forensic framework to identify local vs synced artifacts; forensics acquisition d analysis and circumvention of Samsung secure boot enforced common criteria mode; and MalDozer: automatic framework for android malware detection using deep learning.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 521\
Nemetz, S., Schmitt, S., Freiling, F.\
57201732877;55566362200;13007598800;\
A standardized corpus for SQLite database forensics\
(2018) DFRWS 2018 EU - Proceedings of the 5th Annual DFRWS Europe, pp. S121-S130. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068689201&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.01.015&partnerID=40&md5=f6d0f77fcf823e663bdf1a9fafa3cb9e\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.01.015\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Science Department, Friedrich-Alexander-University Erlangen-Nuremberg (FAU), Germany\
ABSTRACT: An increasing number of programs like browsers or smartphone apps are using SQLite3 databases to store application data. In many cases, such data is of high value during a forensic investigation. Therefore, various tools have been developed that claim to support rigorous forensic analysis of SQLite database files, claims that are not supported by appropriate evidence. We present a standardized corpus of SQLite files that can be used to evaluate and benchmark analysis methods and tools. The corpus contains databases which use special features of the SQLite file format or contain potential pitfalls to detect errors in forensic programs. We apply our corpus to a set of six available tools and evaluate their strengths and weaknesses. In particular, we show that none of these tools can reliably handle all corner cases of the SQLite3 format. \'a9 2018 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Database forensics;  Digital forensics;  Forensic corpora;  SQLite3\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 522 **SELECTED** SID: 29\
Freiling, F., H\'f6sch, L.\
13007598800;57201684329;\
Controlled experiments in digital evidence tampering\
(2018) DFRWS 2018 EU - Proceedings of the 5th Annual DFRWS Europe, pp. S83-S92. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068683518&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2018.01.011&partnerID=40&md5=7efcdd1cd149d69c35964b3fce0b9869\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2018.01.011\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Friedrich-Alexander-Universit\'e4t Erlangen-N\'fcrnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany\
ABSTRACT: We report on a sequence of experiments performed with graduate level students on the tampering of digital evidence. The task of the study participants was to manipulate a given disk image so that it looked as if a website had been accessed and images downloaded in the past. Later, the same students had to distinguish their forgeries from a set of originals in which the images actually had been downloaded. During all parts of the experiment, efforts were recorded in project diaries. Overall, the results show that the tampering task was difficult since none of the forgeries was taken as an original. Furthermore, the analysis effort to detect forgeries consistently was below the effort to create the forgery even in the worst case scenario where the manipulator had full control over the evidence. It also required generally less effort to correctly classify an original than to correctly classify a forgery. Additionally, we derived results confirming that the effort to construct consistently manipulated evidence increases with decreasing control, i.e., the ability to precisely act upon the evidence. \'a9 2018 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Digital evidence;  Forensic computing education\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 523\
Bennett, M.R., Budka, M.\
55367293600;35602643700;\
Digital technology for forensic footwear analysis and vertebrate ichnology\
(2018) Digital Technology for Forensic Footwear Analysis and Vertebrate Ichnology, pp. 1-251. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85063528138&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-93689-5&partnerID=40&md5=c2174d4750c05a8a99e8766380590a7a\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-93689-5\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Science and Technology, Institute for Studies of Landscape and Human Evolution, Bournemouth University, Poole, Dorset, United Kingdom; \
Department of Computing and Informatics, Faculty of Science and Technology, Institute for Studies of Landscape and Human Evolution, Bournemouth University, Poole, Dorset, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: \'93There is no branch of detective science which is so important and so much neglected as the art of tracing footsteps. Happily, I have always laid great stress upon it, and much practice has made it second nature to me.\'94 Sherlock Holmes, Study of Scarlet. Despite the fictional nature of Sherlock Holmes this statement rings true today. The study of footwear is neglected in modern forensic practice and does have much to offer. What it needs is an injection of technology and modern analytical tools. These tools are emerging from the digital revolution currently transforming vertebrate ichnology. Ichnology is the discipline of earth science which focuses on the study of trace fossils such as footprints. This book draws upon both disciplines -geology (ichnology) and forensic science -to show how the two have much to learn from each other especially with regard to the digital capture and analysis of footprints. This book presents field and laboratory methods associated with the collection, analysis and presentation of three-dimensional tracks (footprints) whether from a crime scene or a geological/archaeological excavation. It shows students, researchers and practitioners how to collect and analyse 3D data and take advantage of the digital revolution transforming ichnology. This book is not only essential reading for forensic and earth science students but also for professional forensic practitioners as well as for applied computer scientists developing new tools for visualization and analysis of 3D data. The book forms a natural methods focused complement to the successful text Fossilised Locomotion published by Springer 2014. \'a9 Springer International Publishing AG, part of Springer Nature 2019.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: DigTrace and forensics;  DigTrace computer code;  DigTrace software programme;  Forensics and footprints;  Ichnology and forensics;  Trace evidence and forensics;  Trace fossils and forensics;  Tracks and footprints\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 524\
Umair, A., Nanda, P., He, X., Choo, K.-K.R.\
57196246894;35875349700;7404409118;57208540261;\
User relationship classification of facebook messenger mobile data using WEKA\
(2018) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 11058 LNCS, pp. 337-348. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85059035204&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-02744-5_25&partnerID=40&md5=5ff53db4b9928d0d060c6d06b7c7ed4f\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-02744-5_25\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electrical and Data Engineering, University of Technology Sydney, Sydney, Australia; \
Department of Information Systems and Cyber Security, The University of Texas at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX  78249-0631, United States\
ABSTRACT: Mobile devices are a wealth of information about its user and their digital and physical activities (e.g. online browsing and physical location). Therefore, in any crime investigation artifacts obtained from a mobile device can be extremely crucial. However, the variety of mobile platforms, applications (apps) and the significant size of data compound existing challenges in forensic investigations. In this paper, we explore the potential of machine learning in mobile forensics, and specifically in the context of Facebook messenger artifact acquisition and analysis. Using Quick and Choo (2017)\'92s Digital Forensic Intelligence Analysis Cycle (DFIAC) as the guiding framework, we demonstrate how one can acquire Facebook messenger app artifacts from an Android device and an iOS device (the latter is, using existing forensic tools. Based on the acquired evidence, we create 199 data-instances to train WEKA classifiers (i.e. ZeroR, J48 and Random tree) with the aim of classifying the device owner\'92s contacts and determine their mutual relationship strength. \'a9 Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2018.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Mobile forensics;  Social network information forensics;  Weka\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 525\
Bakas, J., Naskar, R.\
57203821101;53866980700;\
A Digital Forensic Technique for Inter\'96Frame Video Forgery Detection Based on 3D CNN\
(2018) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 11281 LNCS, pp. 304-317. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85059000867&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-030-05171-6_16&partnerID=40&md5=c57666e6be509f9700af79c278fb49b0\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-05171-6_16\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, National Institute of Technology, Rourkela, 769008, India\
ABSTRACT: With the present-day rapid growth in use of low-cost yet efficient video manipulating software, it has become extremely crucial to authenticate and check the integrity of digital videos, before they are used in sensitive contexts. For example, a CCTV footage acting as the primary source of evidence towards a crime scene. In this paper, we deal with a specific class of video forgery detection, viz., inter-frame forgery detection. We propose a deep learning based digital forensic technique using 3D Convolutional Neural Network (3D-CNN) for detection of the above form of video forgery. In the proposed model, we introduce a difference layer in the CNN, which mainly targets to extract the temporal information from the videos. This in turn, helps in efficient inter-frame video forgery detection, given the fact that, temporal information constitute the most suitable form of features for inter-frame anomaly detection. Our experimental results prove that the performance efficiency of the proposed deep learning 3D CNN model is $$97\\%$$ on an average, and is applicable to a wide range of video quality. \'a9 2018, Springer Nature Switzerland AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Classification;  Convolutional neural network;  Deep learning;  Inter-frame video forgery;  Video forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 526\
Riadi, I., Fadlil, A., Fauzan, A.\
55847330600;57202044424;57204811789;\
A study of mobile forensic tools evaluation on android-based LINE messenger\
(2018) International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 9 (10), pp. 201-206. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85057272700&doi=10.14569%2fIJACSA.2018.091024&partnerID=40&md5=75f8883084712d65d7e7480222501706\
\
DOI: 10.14569/IJACSA.2018.091024\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information System, Universitas Ahmad Dahlan, Yogyakarta, Indonesia; \
Department of Electrical Engineering, Universitas Ahmad Dahlan, Yogyakarta, Indonesia; \
Department of Informatics Engineering, Universitas Ahmad Dahlan, Yogyakarta, Indonesia\
ABSTRACT: The limitation of forensic tool and the mobile device's operating system are two problems for researchers in mobile forensics field. Nevertheless, some kinds of forensic tools testing in several devices might be helpful in an investigation. Therefore, the evaluation of forensic tool is one gate to reach the goal of a digital forensics study. Mobile forensics as one of the digital forensics branch that focusing on data recovery process on mobile devices has some problems in the analytical ability because of the different features of forensic tools. In this research, the researchers present studies and techniques on tools ability and evaluated them based on digital evidence of LINE analysis. The experiment was combined VV methods and NIST standard forensic methods to produce a model of forensic tool evaluation steps. As the result of the experiment, Oxygen Forensic has 61.90% of index number and MOBILedit Forensic has the highest index number at 76.19% in messenger application analysis. This research has successfully assessed the performance of forensic tools. \'a9 2015 The Science and Information (SAI) Organization Limited.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Evaluation;  Forensic;  Investigation;  Mobile;  Performance\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 527\
Barmpatsalou, K., Cruz, T., Monteiro, E., Simoes, P.\
57200389490;36974929400;7102113849;57203241452;\
Mobile Forensic Data Analysis: Suspicious Pattern Detection in Mobile Evidence\
(2018) IEEE Access, 6, art. no. 8492342, pp. 59705-59727. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85055055179&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2018.2875068&partnerID=40&md5=6825ee6bb8104fe83f0428959faf4252\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2875068\
AFFILIATIONS: Centre for Informatics and Systems, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, 3030-290, Portugal\
ABSTRACT: Culprits' identification by the means of suspicious pattern detection techniques from mobile device data is one of the most important aims of the mobile forensic data analysis. When criminal activities are related to entirely automated procedures such as malware propagation, predicting the corresponding behavior is a rather achievable task. However, when human behavior is involved, such as in cases of traditional crimes, prediction and detection become more compelling. This paper introduces a combined criminal profiling and suspicious pattern detection methodology for two criminal activities with moderate to the heavy involvement of mobile devices, cyberbullying and low-level drug dealing. Neural and Neurofuzzy techniques are applied on a hybrid original and simulated dataset. The respective performance results are measured and presented, the optimal technique is selected, and the scenarios are re-run on an actual dataset for additional testing and verification. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: ANFIS;  behavioral evidence analysis;  criminal profiling;  evidence data analysis;  Mobile forensics;  neural networks\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 528\
Hughes, V., Harrison, P., Foulkes, P., French, P., Kavanagh, C., Segundo, E.S.\
55764035700;36916752900;11141407700;8412800600;55763838500;57192172547;\
The individual and the system: Assessing the stability of the output of a semiautomatic forensic voice comparison system\
(2018) Proceedings of the Annual Conference of the International Speech Communication Association, INTERSPEECH, 2018-September, pp. 227-231. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85055009035&doi=10.21437%2fInterspeech.2018-1649&partnerID=40&md5=a2be73d1fe5295453035c051fbdc0b40\
\
DOI: 10.21437/Interspeech.2018-1649\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Language and Linguistic Science, University of York, United Kingdom; \
J P French Associates, York, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Semi-automatic systems based on traditional linguistic-phonetic features are increasingly being used for forensic voice comparison (FVC) casework. In this paper, we examine the stability of the output of a semi-automatic system, based on the long-term formant distributions (LTFDs) of F1, F2, and F3, as the channel quality of the input recordings decreases. Cross-validated, calibrated GMM-UBM log likelihood-ratios (LLRs) were computed for 97 Standard Southern British English speakers under four conditions. In each condition the same speech material was used, but the technical properties of the recordings changed (high quality studio recording, landline telephone recording, high bit-rate GSM mobile telephone recording and low bit-rate GSM mobile telephone recording). Equal error rate (EER) and the log LR cost function (Cllr) were compared across conditions. System validity was found to decrease with poorer technical quality, with the largest differences in EER (21.66%) and Cllr (0.46) found between the studio and the low bit-rate GSM conditions. However, importantly, performance for individual speakers was affected differently by channel quality. Speakers that produced stronger evidence overall were found to be more variable. Mean F3 was also found to be a predictor of LLR variability, however no effects were found based on speakers' voice quality profiles. \'a9 2018 International Speech Communication Association. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Biometric menagerie;  Forensic voice comparison;  Long term formant distributions;  Semi-automatic speaker recognition;  Validity\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 529\
Ajili, M., Bonastre, J.-F., Rossato, S.\
56495242700;6603934225;35180433100;\
Voice comparison and rhythm: Behavioral Differences between Target and Non-target Comparisons\
(2018) Proceedings of the Annual Conference of the International Speech Communication Association, INTERSPEECH, 2018-September, pp. 1061-1065. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85054962129&doi=10.21437%2fInterspeech.2018-61&partnerID=40&md5=c9922c914dbeaefa520717b5d3b1abb0\
\
DOI: 10.21437/Interspeech.2018-61\
AFFILIATIONS: LIA-CERI, University Of Avignon, Avignon, France; \
LIG, Univ.Grenoble.Alpes, Grenoble, France\
ABSTRACT: It is common to see voice recordings being presented as a forensic trace in court. Generally, a forensic expert is asked to analyze both suspect and criminal's voice samples in order to indicate whether the evidence supports the prosecution (same-speaker) or defence (different-speakers) hypotheses. This process is known as Forensic Voice Comparison (FVC). Since the emergence of the DNA typing model, the likelihood-ratio (LR) framework has become the golden standard in forensic sciences. The LR not only supports one of the hypotheses but also quantifies the strength of its support. However, the LR accepts some practical limitations due to its estimation process itself. It is particularly true when Automatic Speaker Recognition (ASpR) systems are considered as they are outputting a score in all situations regardless of the case specific conditions. Indeed, several factors are not taken into account by the estimation process like the quality and quantity of information in both voice recordings, their phonological content or also the speakers intrinsic characteristics. In our recent study, we showed the importance of the phonemic content and we highlighted interesting differences between inter-speakers effects and intra-speaker's ones. In this article, we wish to take our previous analysis a step farther and investigate the impact of rhythm variation separately on target and non-target trials. \'a9 2018 International Speech Communication Association. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forensic voice comparison;  Reliability;  Rhythm;  Speaker factor;  Speaker recognition\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 530\
Gupta, S., Mohan, N., Sandhu, P.S.\
56746446400;8371340800;23470640800;\
Energy deviation measure: A technique for digital image forensics\
(2018) International Journal of Electronic Security and Digital Forensics, 10 (4), pp. 401-416. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85054477691&doi=10.1504%2fIJESDF.2018.095141&partnerID=40&md5=ddccb7ec5e0d815b5823af42286ecab9\
\
DOI: 10.1504/IJESDF.2018.095141\
AFFILIATIONS: CSE, I.K.G.P.T.U., Kapurthala, India; \
CSE, Bhikhiwind Campus, I.K.G.P.T.U., Kapurthala, India; \
R.B.I.E.B.T. Sahauran, Mohali, India\
ABSTRACT: Digital image forgery and its forensics have emerged as a significant research domain. Digital forensics is required to examine the questioned images and classify them as authentic or tampered. This paper aims at image tamper detection using a novel energy deviation measure (EDM). The EDM is a measure of deviation in pixel intensity with respect to its immediate and distant neighbourhood. It is extracted by measuring the inter pixel intensity difference across and inside the DCT block boundary of a JPEG image. Features from EDM have been used for the classification of the authentic and tampered images. Support vector machine is used for image classification. The experimental results have shown that the proposed method performs better with fewer dimensions as compared to other state of the art methods. It gives improved accuracy and area under curve while classifying images. It is robust to noise and JPEG image compression quality factor. Copyright \'a9 2018 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Compression artefacts;  Copy move forgery;  EDM;  Energy deviation measure;  Image forensics;  Image splicing;  Image tampering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 531\
Rasin, A., Malik, T., Wagner, J., Kim, C.\
9738559600;7005177091;56768652900;57203969261;\
Where provenance in database storage\
(2018) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 11017 LNCS, pp. 231-235. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85053834136&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-98379-0_26&partnerID=40&md5=e26499fc5f1acab42fc52c1c28690570\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-98379-0_26\
AFFILIATIONS: DePaul University, Chicago, IL  60604, United States\
ABSTRACT: Where provenance is a relationship between a data item and the location from which this data was copied. In a DBMS, a typical use of where provenance is in establishing a copy-by-address relationship between the output of a query and the particular data value(s) that originated it. Normal DBMS operations create a variety of auxiliary copies of the data (e.g., indexes, MVs, cached copies). These copies exist over time with relationships that evolve continuously \'96 (A) indexes maintain the copy with a reference to the origin value, (B) MVs maintain the copy without a reference to the source table, (C) cached copies are created once and are never maintained. A query may be answered from any of these auxiliary copies; however, this where provenance is not computed or maintained. In this paper, we describe sources from which forensic analysis of storage can derive where provenance of table data. We also argue that this computed where provenance can be useful (and perhaps necessary) for accurate forensic reports and evidence from maliciously altered databases or validation of corrupted DBMS storage. \'a9 Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2018.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Database Forensics;  DBMS Anti-Tampering;  Where Provenance\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 532\
14th IFIP WG 11.9 International Conference on Digital Forensics, 2018\
(2018) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 532, 367 p. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85053638832&partnerID=40&md5=8dffc11c89ea385536ba6abf8db484d7\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 19 papers. The special focus in this conference is on Digital Forensics. The topics include: Enabling non-expert analysis OF large volumes OF intercepted network traffic; hashing incomplete and unordered network streams; a network forensic scheme using correntropy-variation for attack detection; a taxonomy of cloud endpoint forensic tools; a layered graphical model for cloud forensic mission attack impact analysis; forensic analysis of android steganography apps; automated vulnerability detection in embedded devices; a forensic logging system for siemens programmable logic controllers; enhancing the security and forensic capabilities of programmable logic controllers; challenges, opportunities and a framework for web environment forensics; internet of things forensics \'96 Challenges and a case study; recovery of forensic artifacts from deleted jump lists; obtaining precision-recall trade-offs in fuzzy searches of large email corpora; anti-forensic capacity and detection rating of hidden data in the ext4 filesystem; detecting data leakage from hard copy documents; Information-entropy-based DNS tunnel prediction; collecting Network Evidence Using Constrained Approximate Search Algorithms.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 533\
Singh, B., Singh, U., Sharma, P., Nath, R.\
57161552900;7402543473;57212203742;24281462700;\
Recovery of forensic artifacts from deleted jump lists\
(2018) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 532, pp. 51-65. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85053607657&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-99277-8_4&partnerID=40&md5=177bea1c647db1fc4e4e330e287362f3\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-99277-8_4\
AFFILIATIONS: Defence Institute of Advanced Technology, Pune, India; \
Chitkara UniversityPunjab, India; \
Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, India\
ABSTRACT: Jump lists, which were introduced in the Windows 7 desktop operating system, have attracted the interest of researchers and practitioners in the digital forensics community. The structure and forensic implications of jump lists have been explored widely. However, little attention has focused on anti-forensic activities such as jump list evidence modification and deletion. This chapter proposes a new methodology for identifying deleted entries in the Windows 10 AutoDest type of jump list files and recovering the deleted entries. The proposed methodology is best suited to scenarios where users intentionally delete jump list entries to hide evidence related to their activities. The chapter also examines how jump lists are impacted when software applications are installed and when the associated files are accessed by external storage devices. In particular, artifacts related to file access, such as the lists of most recently used and most frequently used files, file modification, access and creation timestamps, names of applications used to access files, file paths, volume names and serial numbers from where the files were accessed, can be recovered even after entries are removed from the jump lists and the software applications are uninstalled. The results demonstrate that the analysis of jump lists is immensely helpful in constructing the timelines of user activities on Windows 10 systems. \'a9 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing 2018.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Deleted jump lists;  Recovery;  Windows 10;  Windows forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 534 **SELECTED** SID: 30\
G\'f6bel, T., Baier, H.\
57201692166;36449072800;\
Anti-forensic capacity and detection rating of hidden data in the ext4 filesystem\
(2018) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 532, pp. 87-110. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85053607092&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-99277-8_6&partnerID=40&md5=610a034142a2f21e47c7ab9d143a0bfe\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-99277-8_6\
AFFILIATIONS: Darmstadt University of Applied Sciences, Darmstadt, Germany\
ABSTRACT: The rise of cyber crime and the growing number of anti-forensic tools demand more research on combating anti-forensics. A prominent anti-forensic paradigm is the hiding of data at different abstraction layers, including the filesystem layer. This chapter evaluates various techniques for hiding data in the ext4 filesystem, which is commonly used by Android devices. The evaluation uses the capacity and detection rating metrics. Capacity reflects the quantity of data that can be concealed using a hiding technique. Detection rating is the difficulty of finding the concealed artifacts; specifically, the amount of effort required to discover the artifacts. Well-known data hiding techniques as well as new techniques proposed in this chapter are evaluated. \'a9 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing 2018.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Data hiding;  Ext4;  Filesystem forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 535\
Liu, C., Singhal, A., Wijesekera, D.\
55490693800;14056810000;6603774480;\
A layered graphical model for cloud forensic mission attack impact analysis\
(2018) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 532, pp. 263-289. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85053605893&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-99277-8_15&partnerID=40&md5=6cffe2614f23255e08b793ac77ca5e34\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-99277-8_15\
AFFILIATIONS: George Mason University, Fairfax, VA, United States; \
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD, United States\
ABSTRACT: Cyber attacks on the systems that support an enterprise\'92s mission can significantly impact its objectives. This chapter describes a layered graphical model designed to support forensic investigations by quantifying the mission impacts of cyber attacks. The model has three layers: (i) an upper layer that models operational tasks and their interdependencies that fulfill mission objectives; (ii) a middle layer that reconstructs attack scenarios based on the interrelationships of the available evidence; and (iii) a lower level that uses system calls executed in upper layer tasks in order to reconstruct missing attack steps when evidence is missing. The graphs constructed from the three layers are employed to compute the impacts of attacks on enterprise missions. The National Vulnerability Database \'96 Common Vulnerability Scoring System scores and forensic investigator estimates are used to compute the mission impacts. A case study is presented to demonstrate the utility of the graphical model. \'a9 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing 2018.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud forensic analysis;  Layered graphical model;  Mission attack impact\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 536\
Das, U.K., Samaddar, S.G., Keserwani, P.K.\
57209095305;36009386900;54585418100;\
Digital Forensic Enabled Image Authentication Using Least Significant Bit (LSB) with Tamper Localization Based Hash Function\
(2018) Lecture Notes in Networks and Systems, 19, pp. 141-155. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85053395077&doi=10.1007%2f978-981-10-5523-2_14&partnerID=40&md5=113d9f7916d38e54a2e8d3ad07fc3e93\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-981-10-5523-2_14\
AFFILIATIONS: Srikrishna College, Bagula, Nadia, West Bengal, India; \
Department of Computer Science & Engineering, National Institute of Technology Sikkim, Ravangla, Sikkim, India\
ABSTRACT: Addition of hash component in a message is always for verification of authentication of message without integrity. In order to retain integrity certain schemes such as Merkle\'96Damgard scheme or Rabin scheme based on the block cipher can be used. However, the block cipher schemes in messages do not get applicable on image which are encoding message in a visual format. Therefore, block cipher based schemes are not able to provide tamper localization in case of image authentication. Tamper detection is needed in case of images as it is not visualized without proper verification. Moreover, localization is not possible by hash verification making the authentication processes only detectable but not identifiable. The paper presents a generation process of three least significant bits of hash function. The image insertion is not visualized due to human eye limitation. The method proposed is able to embed a secret image (gray scale) inside a corner image. Experimental results show an improvement in peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR) values of the proposed technique over the other techniques available, such as hash-based LSB(2-3-3) image steganography in spatial domain. This paper proposes an image authentication process not only for robustness, security, and tamper detection but also successfully able to identify tamper by a process of tamper localization. The parameters compared include the classical mechanism along with newly introduced entropy measurement of images. A performance analysis is able to show the result claimed in the paper. The paper uses a least significant bit (LSB) based hash function, which is a blind technique as image-related information is never sent to receiver separately. In fact, the proposed approach is a clever design as the generated hash function will be embedded in the image itself. The proposed mechanism is able to offer good imperceptibility between original image and embedded image with hash bits. Even a minute tampering can be detected with proper localization; the localization of tampering is having its wide applicability in case of forensic evidence of malicious image morphing. \'a9 2018, Springer Nature Singapore Pte. Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Image authentication;  Image hashing;  Integrity;  Least significant bit (LSB) based technique;  Tamper detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 537\
Arshad, H., Jantan, A.B., Abiodun, O.I.\
57204201750;24724481600;57203266522;\
Digital forensics: Review of issues in scientific validation of digital evidence\
(2018) Journal of Information Processing Systems, 14 (2), pp. 346-376. Cited 21 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85052019224&doi=10.3745%2fJIPS.03.0095&partnerID=40&md5=2e77b825e2a39bad06c76d005cf8dc13\
\
DOI: 10.3745/JIPS.03.0095\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science, Universiti Sains Malaysia, Penang, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics is a vital part of almost every criminal investigation given the amount of information available and the opportunities offered by electronic data to investigate and evidence a crime. However, in criminal justice proceedings, these electronic pieces of evidence are often considered with the utmost suspicion and uncertainty, although, on occasions are justifiable. Presently, the use of scientifically unproven forensic techniques are highly criticized in legal proceedings. Nevertheless, the exceedingly distinct and dynamic characteristics of electronic data, in addition to the current legislation and privacy laws remain as challenging aspects for systematically attesting evidence in a court of law. This article presents a comprehensive study to examine the issues that are considered essential to discuss and resolve, for the proper acceptance of evidence based on scientific grounds. Moreover, the article explains the state of forensics in emerging sub-fields of digital technology such as, cloud computing, social media, and the Internet of Things (IoT), and reviewing the challenges which may complicate the process of systematic validation of electronic evidence. The study further explores various solutions previously proposed, by researchers and academics, regarding their appropriateness based on their experimental evaluation. Additionally, this article suggests open research areas, highlighting many of the issues and problems associated with the empirical evaluation of these solutions for immediate attention by researchers and practitioners. Notably, academics must react to these challenges with appropriate emphasis on methodical verification. Therefore, for this purpose, the issues in the experiential validation of practices currently available are reviewed in this study. The review also discusses the struggle involved in demonstrating the reliability and validity of these approaches with contemporary evaluation methods. Furthermore, the development of best practices, reliable tools and the formulation of formal testing methods for digital forensic techniques are highlighted which could be extremely useful and of immense value to improve the trustworthiness of electronic evidence in legal proceedings. \'a9 2018 KIPS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Criminal investigation;  Data;  Digital forensics;  Electronic evidence;  Reliability;  Validation;  Verification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 538\
Wang, J., Wang, Y., Kang, H., Yang, Y., Fu, J., Hao, J.\
57206676332;57203769300;57203341070;57194568137;57194573409;57203345350;\
Research on file recovery system for computer forensics based on windows\
(2018) Journal of Advanced Oxidation Technologies, 21 (2), art. no. 201805458, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85051327087&doi=10.26802%2fjaots.2018.05458&partnerID=40&md5=328a88718a01b1f2ec3173d6bd7851a4\
\
DOI: 10.26802/jaots.2018.05458\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 539\
Shahpasand, M., Mahmod, R., Udzir, N.I.\
55758943200;6506085008;8662597200;\
Voice over IP on Windows IoT core\
(2018) International Journal of Internet Technology and Secured Transactions, 8 (3), pp. 412-432. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85051069872&doi=10.1504%2fIJITST.2018.093665&partnerID=40&md5=3f634d5e2a56f3e3a49e9004a48a7313\
\
DOI: 10.1504/IJITST.2018.093665\
AFFILIATIONS: Asia Pacific University of Technology and Innovation (APU), Technology Park Malaysia, Bukit Jalil, Kuala Lumpur, 57000, Malaysia; \
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology (FSKTM), University Putra Malaysia (UPM), Jalan Upm, Serdang, Selangor, 43400, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: The tremendous growth of internet-of-things integrated with VoIP applications gives a serious challenge to digital forensic researchers. This integration gives more challenges in investigation process because there are various types of VoIP application with different design and implementation features. There are diverse VoIP applications used by criminals that caused difficulties in the identification, acquisition and preservation of evidential data. This paper used Skype to determine the data remnants on Windows 7 and Windows 8.1 when users run Skype functions including installing and uninstalling, instant messaging, voice and video call, video messaging, sending and receiving files, screen sharing and taking pictures. The link where the victim and suspect may have been in contact on Skype is provable by the proposed methods. It is found that potential evidences can be found in capturing memory, capturing network traffic, user application data and the data remnants available in user's device. Copyright \'a9 2018 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Application investigation;  Digital forensics;  Internet of thing;  IoT;  Skype;  Voice over IP;  VoIP application\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 540\
Li, Y., He, J., Huang, N., Liu, G.\
57193607329;8688078000;56413952200;56375196000;\
Recovering multiple versions of YAFFS2 files based on Hash and timestamps\
(2018) International Journal of Embedded Systems, 10 (4), pp. 313-322. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85051052590&doi=10.1504%2fIJES.2018.093691&partnerID=40&md5=3226dfd6b44b9803a4b5829cdd21971d\
\
DOI: 10.1504/IJES.2018.093691\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Information Technology, Beijing Engineering Research Center for IoT Software and Systems, Beijing University of Technology, Beijing, 100124, China\
ABSTRACT: With the popularity of digital devices, digital forensic research targeted at Android-based devices has drawn increasing attention. Among the many issues in digital forensics, data recovery has received a great deal of attention. In data recovery, deleted or updated data may contain important information about past activities of the user, making such information viable evidence as far as digital forensics is concerned. In this paper, according to special characteristics of YAFFS2, we propose a new method based on the notions of Hash and timestamp to recover multiple versions of YAFFS2 files during which the relationship between timestamps and file operations is analysed. To verify the effectiveness of our proposed method, we will simulate a NAND chip under Linux and perform some experiments to show that the proposed method is both effective and efficient in the recovery of multiple versions of different types of YAFFS2 files as well as Android images. Copyright \'a9 2018 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android;  Data recovery;  Digital forensics;  Hash;  Security;  Timestamp;  YAFFS2\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 541\
Mogire, N., Minas, R.K., Crosby, M.E.\
57195065168;23100376200;7007066916;\
Automatically unaware: Using data analytics to detect physiological markers of cybercrime\
(2018) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 10915 LNAI, pp. 316-328. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85050607653&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-91470-1_26&partnerID=40&md5=3e40f5f4ad18e3f266250edcf8b1d105\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-91470-1_26\
AFFILIATIONS: Information and Computer Sciences, University of Hawaii at Manoa, POST 317 1680 East-West Road, Honolulu, HI  96822, United States; \
Shidler College of Business, University of Hawaii at Manoa, 2404 Maile Way Suite E601f, Honolulu, HI  96822, United States\
ABSTRACT: Cybercrime investigation is reliant on availability of adequate and valid digital artifacts useable for reconstructing security incidents or triangulating other available information to make it useful. Various operational artifacts of computer systems, networks and software have been studied and gradually applied as forensic evidence. However the scope of studies on human-generated artifacts as forensic evidence has been limited mostly focusing on surveillance images, with DNA deposits being widely studied via older forensic fields. We present the case that further focus on human-centric evidence in form of physiological measurements is useful in triangulating other evidence as well as in making some direct inferences. In this concept paper: we pair electroencephalography (EEG) with change point detection algorithms to conceptually model the acquisition and processing of EEG signals into forensic artifacts; propose continuous data reduction and packaging to keep the system forensic-ready; suggest a schema for validating such artifacts towards their applicability as forensic evidence; and model a study to be used in testing the conceptual model. This work contributes to cybersecurity research by highlighting human-generated artifacts as a forensic big data resource and presenting a methodology for harnessing the data to turn it into useful information. \'a9 Springer International Publishing AG, part of Springer Nature 2018.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cybersecurity;  Digital forensics;  Electroencephalography;  Forensics artifacts;  Physiological measures\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 542\
Kigwana, I., Venter, H.S.\
57189330816;7005841055;\
A digital forensic readiness architecture for online examinations\
(2018) South African Computer Journal, 30 (1), pp. 1-39. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85050072716&doi=10.18489%2fsacj.v30i1.466&partnerID=40&md5=034e851744269db09d06c3bc58a78385\
\
DOI: 10.18489/sacj.v30i1.466\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, University of Pretoria, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: Some institutions provide online courses to students to ease the courses' workload. Online courses can also be convenient because the online course content management software conducts marking of tests and examinations. However, a few students could be willing to exploit such a system's weaknesses in a bid to cheat in online examinations because invigilators are absent. Proactive measures are needed and measures have to be implemented in order to thwart unacceptable behaviour in situations where there is little control of students' conduct. Digital Forensic Readiness (DFR) employs a proactive approach for an organisation to be forensically prepared for situations where there is little control over people. This can be achieved by gathering, storing and handling incident response data, with the aim of reducing the time and cost that would otherwise be spent in a post-event response process. The problem this paper addresses is that, at the time of writing this paper, there existed no known DFR architecture that can be used to collect relevant information for DFR purposes, specifically in the course of an online examination, as described in the standard published by the International Standards Organisation (ISO) and the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) (ISO/IEC 27043:2015) for incident investigation principles and processes. Due to the lack of DFR architecture, the authors propose an Online Examination Digital Forensic Readiness Architecture (OEDFRA) that can be used to achieve DFR when online examinations are conducted. This architecture employs already existing DFR techniques, discussed in the study, to help educational institutions achieve DFR in online examinations. This architecture, (OEDFRA), when implemented, will be tested in future research in order to confirm its contribution to the field of DFR. \'a9 the author(s).\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cheating in online tests;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensic readiness;  Digital forensics;  Online examination architecture;  Online examination fraud\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 543\
Iorliam, A.\
56426550900;\
Subdivisions of forensic science\
(2018) SpringerBriefs in Computer Science, pp. 17-56. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85049806258&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-94499-9_3&partnerID=40&md5=2eda2fd2996afa57f9cf3066da545385\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-94499-9_3\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, Benue State University, Makurdi, Nigeria\
ABSTRACT: Generally speaking, forensic science is targeted towards crime investigation. A crime is defined as \'93 an offensive act against society that violates a law and its punishable by the government (Volonino et al. Computer Forensics: Principles and Practices. Prentice-Hall Inc., 2006, [1]).\'94 For an act to be considered a crime, it must violate a criminal law. Criminal laws are defined by statutes and they are in place to safeguard the public, human life, or private property (Volonino et al. Computer Forensics: Principles and Practices. Prentice-Hall Inc., 2006, [1]). Again, it\'92s the government\'92s obligation to punish offensive acts committed by individuals. This means that crimes committed to individuals are punished by the government and not by the individual the crime is committed to. In this chapter, we will explore the different subdivisions of forensic science and how they are applied to tackle crimes. \'a9 The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer International Publishing AG, part of Springer Nature 2018.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Crime investigation;  Evidence;  Forensic science\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 544\
Hou, J.-U., Jang, H.-U., Park, J.-S., Lee, H.-K.\
56218423300;56683825900;56217803800;7501475723;\
Exposing Digital Forgeries by Detecting a Contextual Violation Using Deep Neural Networks\
(2018) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 10763 LNCS, pp. 16-24. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85049465419&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-93563-8_2&partnerID=40&md5=559f0ecd1b207447c25e3e7dc856d14c\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-93563-8_2\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computing, KAIST, Daejeon, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Previous digital image forensics focused on the low-level features that include traces of the image modifying history. In this paper, we present a framework to detect the manipulation of images through a contextual violation. First, we proposed a context learning convolutional neural networks (CL-CNN) that detects the contextual violation in the image. In combination with a well-known object detector such as R-CNN, the proposed method can evaluate the contextual scores according to the combination of objects in the image. Through experiments, we showed that our method effectively detects the contextual violation in the target image. \'a9 2018, Springer International Publishing AG, part of Springer Nature.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 545\
Dalrymple, B.E., Smith, E.J.\
7005408902;57202579517;\
Forensic digital image processing: Optimization of impression evidence\
(2018) Forensic Digital Image Processing: Optimization of Impression Evidence, pp. 1-228. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85048756350&doi=10.4324%2f9781351112239&partnerID=40&md5=38231dc679f9bc28f23b635b68293fd0\
\
DOI: 10.4324/9781351112239\
AFFILIATIONS: Laurentian University, Forensic Science Department, Canada; \
York Regional PoliceON, Canada\
ABSTRACT: The digital revolution over the past several decades has advanced every facet of evidence detection, photography, optimization, and interpretation. Forensic scientists and practitioners have benefited tremendously from the move from film to digital. With proper procedures in place, digital images and casework capabilities have increased tremendously in both complexity and range due to a vast array of tools to enhance evidence and photography. Forensic Digital Image Processing: Optimization of Impression Evidence provides the forensic investigator with the tools and understanding to extract, optimize, and interpret the maximum evidence possible from crime scenes to increase identifications. The book begins by examining the emergence of forensic digital image processing, and the gradual improvement and acceptance of the science over the past four decades. Coverage includes looking at the issues of image integrity and authentication including forensic image optimization and the manipulation of images. Chapters explore techniques exploiting color theory, modes, and channels to optimize signal-to-noise ratio in images. One of the greatest assets of digital image technology is the ability to combine multiple images of the same subject to create a final, blended image: one that displays the desired evidence and is especially useful for fingerprint or footwear impression. Later chapters demonstrate image subtraction, focus stacking, and high dynamic range, utilizing images in optimum focus and with substrate interference diminished or removed entirely. The authors look at fast Fourier transform as an optimal tool for noise removal, addressing basic theory and diagnosis of the noise signatures. The book discusses the history of digital imaging techniques and their treatment within the court system. Forensic Digital Image Processing: Optimization of Impression Evidence serves as an invaluable resource and tool for practicing professionals-as well as those new to the field-to look at best practices, the latest technology, and advances in utilizing the increasing array of tools of the trade. \'a9 2018 by Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 546\
Gopalakrishnan, A., Vineti, E., Mohan, A.K., Sethumadhavan, M.\
57202150412;57202161605;57195934643;55034101000;\
The Art of Piecewise Hashing: A step toward better evidence provability\
(2018) Journal of Cyber Security and Mobility, 7 (2), pp. 109-130. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85047299146&doi=10.13052%2fjcsm2245-1439.719&partnerID=40&md5=50c73cef631ca62441baff2be4d3450c\
\
DOI: 10.13052/jcsm2245-1439.719\
AFFILIATIONS: TIFAC-CORE in Cyber Security, Amrita School of Engineering, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Coimbatore, India; \
Vrije University, Netherlands\
ABSTRACT: The integrity of digital evidence is believed to be the paramount trait in the world of cyber forensics. Cybercrime investigators face myriad challenges in the process similar to accommodating the call for bulk digital evidence. In due course extraction of useful information while maintaining the integrity and absolute protection against data degradation is mandatory. In this manuscript, we propose a novel approach by applying cryptographic hashing technique to only selected significant portions of the digital evidence, so even if the overall hash does not match, investigators could still verify the integrity of those critical sections of the evidence.We put forward two notions in this manuscript; former is heterogeneous piecewise hashing which is a flexible version of the piecewise hashing strategy, and latter is a novel evidence certification strategy which formalizes evidence provability process completely. \'a9 2018 the Author(s).\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Acquisition;  Admissibility;  Artifact;  Authenticity;  Certificate;  Corruption;  Hashing;  Litigation;  Memory-block;  Piecewise;  Validation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 547\
Huang, H., He, Y., Liu, Q.\
57221180668;7404941679;57201989024;\
An improved SIFT image tamper forensics method\
(2018) International Journal of Circuits, Systems and Signal Processing, 12, pp. 143-146. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85046696727&partnerID=40&md5=46aac003bc903e93f7af15f55016e71a\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Shandong University, School of Information Engineering, Jinan, Shandong  250101, China; \
Shandong Yingcai University, School of Information Engineering, Jinan, Shandong  250104, China; \
Shandong University, School of Control Science and Engineering, Jinan, Shandong  250061, China\
ABSTRACT: In view of copy and paste, the most frequent operation in digital image tampering, an improved SIFT algorithm for forensics of image tampering was put forward. The algorithm sees to copy and paste forensics based on the SIFT circular descriptor operator, extracts the circular descriptor eigenvectors of the detected images, and conducts detection and location for the image copy and paste area by using eigenvector match-up. Experiments show that this method is robust to image processing operations, such as image rotation, zoom, blurring, noising and so on. It can detect the trace of copy and paste operation in digital image tampering quickly and effectively. Furthermore, it can accurately locate the area where copy and paste occurred. \'a9 2018, North Atlantic University Union. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Copy-move processing;  SIFT matching;  Tamper forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 548\
Aghamaleki, J.A., Behrad, A.\
57190374770;17345225600;\
Detecting double compressed MPEG videos with the same quantization matrix and synchronized group of pictures structure\
(2018) Journal of Electronic Imaging, 27 (1), art. no. 013031, . Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85046138948&doi=10.1117%2f1.JEI.27.1.013031&partnerID=40&md5=3fb41c2b62414e63a69a864e5c1797a7\
\
DOI: 10.1117/1.JEI.27.1.013031\
AFFILIATIONS: Damghan University, Semnan Province, Damghan, Iran; \
Shahed University, Tehran, Iran\
ABSTRACT: Double compression detection is a crucial stage in digital image and video forensics. However, the detection of double compressed videos is challenging when the video forger uses the same quantization matrix and synchronized group of pictures (GOP) structure during the recompression history to conceal tampering effects. A passive approach is proposed for detecting double compressed MPEG videos with the same quantization matrix and synchronized GOP structure. To devise the proposed algorithm, the effects of recompression on P frames are mathematically studied. Then, based on the obtained guidelines, a feature vector is proposed to detect double compressed frames on the GOP level. Subsequently, sparse representations of the feature vectors are used for dimensionality reduction and enrich the traces of recompression. Finally, a support vector machine classifier is employed to detect and localize double compression in temporal domain. The experimental results show that the proposed algorithm achieves the accuracy of more than 95%. In addition, the comparisons of the results of the proposed method with those of other methods reveal the efficiency of the proposed algorithm. \'a9 2018 SPIE and IS&T.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: double compression;  quantization matrix;  residual error;  video forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 549\
Yang, F., Li, Y., Chong, K., Wang, B.\
57201523919;57197731349;57201529182;57216234699;\
Double JPEG compression detection based on fusion features\
(2018) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, LNICST, 226 LNICST, pp. 158-167. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85045198683&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-73564-1_16&partnerID=40&md5=4e5b89624abb41786cb0b194a15be0d1\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-73564-1_16\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information and Communication Engineering, Dalian University of Technology, Dalian, 116024, China\
ABSTRACT: Detection of double JPEG compression plays an increasingly important role in image forensics. This paper mainly focuses on the situation where the images are aligned double JPEG compressed with two different quantization tables. We propose a new detection method based on the fusion features of Benford features and likelihood probability ratio features in this paper. We believe that with the help of likelihood probability ratio features, our fusion features can expose more artifacts left by double JPEG compression, which lead to a better performance. Comparative experiments have been carried out in our paper, and experimental result shows our method outperforms the baseline methods, even when one of the quality factors is pretty high. \'a9 ICST Institute for Computer Sciences, Social Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering 2018.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Benford features;  DCT coefficients;  Double compression detection;  Likelihood probability ratio features\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 550\
Makarand Shelke, P., Shardanand Prasad, R.\
57201479137;35234918100;\
Tradeoffs between forensics and anti-forensics of digital images\
(2018) Computer Vision: Concepts, Methodologies, Tools, and Applications, pp. 2124-2138. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85045071015&doi=10.4018%2f978-1-5225-5204-8.ch093&partnerID=40&md5=7bc71cab8a76bf318d914c2a2d530351\
\
DOI: 10.4018/978-1-5225-5204-8.ch093\
AFFILIATIONS: Smt. Kashibai Navale College of Engineering, India and Savitribai Phule Pune University, India; \
Savitribai Phule Pune University, India\
ABSTRACT: Over past few years, we are the spectators of the evolution in the field of information technology, telecommunication and networking. Due to the advancement of smart phones, easy and inexpensive access to the internet and popularity of social networking, capture and use of digital images has increased drastically. Image processing techniques are getting developed at rapidly and at the same time easy to use image tampering soft-wares are also getting readily available. If tampered images are misused, big troubles having deep moral, ethical and lawful allegations may arise. Due to high potential of visual media and the ease in their capture, distribution and storage, we rarely find a field where digital visual data is not used. The value of image as evidence of event must be carefully assessed and it is a call for from different fields of applications. Therefore, in this age of fantasy, image authentication has become an issue of utmost importance. \'a9 2018 by IGI Global. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 551\
Isaac, M.M., Wilscy, M.\
57171936400;17436378300;\
Image forgery detection using region - Based Rotation invariant Co-occurrences among adjacent LBPs\
(2018) Journal of Intelligent and Fuzzy Systems, 34 (3), pp. 1679-1690. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85044793552&doi=10.3233%2fJIFS-169461&partnerID=40&md5=23b0d0f0146477406c8d7b87ac286d3d\
\
DOI: 10.3233/JIFS-169461\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, University of Kerala, Kerala, India; \
St. GITS, Kottukulam Hills, Pathamuttom, Kottayam, Kerala, India\
ABSTRACT: Today's Image processing tools have matured to a level where its users can effortlessly modify or enhance the images according to their requirement. A misuse of such tools has created a necessity for authenticating images to ensure its correctness. Image Forensics deals with the study of different kinds of manipulation on images and their detection. Image forgery detection algorithms detect forgery related artifacts which can be distinguished using specific image properties. Texture-based features have been widely used to detect forgery induced texture variations in the images. In this paper, we propose Region and Texture combined features for Image Forgery Detection. The Region-based approaches like - Edge-based Region Detection, Saliency-based Region Detection, and Wavelet-based Region Detection are captured, and on these regions, the texture feature- Rotation invariant Co-occurrences among adjacent LBP (RiCoLBP) is applied. The features thus obtained are optimized using Non-Negative Matrix Factorization and fed to a Support Vector Machine (SVM) for classification. The method is extensively evaluated on three benchmark datasets for image forgery detection namely CASIA v1.0, CASIA v2.0 and CUISDE. The performance reveals improved detection accuracies when compared to the state-of-the-art methods in detecting forged and authentic images. \'a9 2018 - IOS Press and the authors. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: edge-based features;  Image forgery detection;  RiCLBP;  Saliency;  Wavelets\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 552\
Xu, M., Sun, J., Zheng, N., Qiao, T., Wu, Y., Shi, K., Ge, H., Yang, T.\
56443054200;57200389735;35274126400;56177583700;56081577200;57195634944;57200389222;57203376381;\
A novel file carving algorithm for EVTX logs\
(2018) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, LNICST, 216, pp. 97-105. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85041111161&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-73697-6_7&partnerID=40&md5=735123e6e53cd3adb0222b59a86795b0\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-73697-6_7\
AFFILIATIONS: Internet and Network Security Laboratory, School of Computer Science and Technology, Hangzhou Dianzi University, Hangzhou, China; \
School of Cyberspace, Hangzhou Dianzi University, Hangzhou, China; \
Key Lab of the Third Research Institute of the Ministry of Public Security, Shanghai, China\
ABSTRACT: The Microsoft Windows system provides very important sources of forensic evidence. However, few attention has been paid to the recovery of the deleted EVTX logs. Without using system metadata, a novel carving algorithm of EVTX logs is proposed by analyzing the characteristics and intrinsic structure. Firstly, we reassemble binary data belonging to fragments of complete EVTX logs to reconstruct the deleted logs. Secondly, extracting records for the corrupted logs can make the algorithm robust through the special features of template and substitution array. Finally, some experiments are given to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm. Moreover, when the logs are fragmented or corrupted, our algorithm can still perform well. \'a9 ICST Institute for Computer Sciences, Social Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering 2018.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: EVTX Files;  File carving;  Fragmented files;  Windows forensics;  Windows XML event logs\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 553\
Barton, T.E.A., Azhar, M.A.H.B.\
57193013422;25824982900;\
Open source forensics for a multi-platform drone system\
(2018) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, LNICST, 216, pp. 83-96. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85041106826&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-73697-6_6&partnerID=40&md5=69de59e03996966aa059c01c9725a0b0\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-73697-6_6\
AFFILIATIONS: Computing, Digital Forensics and Cybersecurity, Canterbury Christ Church University, Canterbury, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Drones or UAVs (Unmanned Air Vehicles) have a great potential to cause concerns over privacy, trespassing and safety. This is due to the increasing availability of drones and their capabilities of travelling large distances and taking high resolution photographs and videos. From a criminological perspective, drones are an ideal method of smuggling, physically removing the operator from the act. It is for this reason that drones are also being utilised as deadly weapons in conflict areas. The need for forensic research to successfully analyse captured drones is rising. The challenges that drones present include the need to interpret flight data and tackling the multi-platform nature of drone systems. This paper reports the extraction and interpretation of important artefacts found in the recorded flight logs on both the internal memory of the UAV and the controlling application, as well as analysis of media, logs and other important files for identifying artefacts. In addition, some basic scripts will be utilised to demonstrate the potential for developing fully fledged forensics tools applicable to other platforms. Tests of anti-forensics measures will also be reported. \'a9 ICST Institute for Computer Sciences, Social Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering 2018.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android;  Anti-forensics;  DJI Phantom;  Drone forensics;  Mobile forensics;  Open source;  UAV\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 554\
Leopard, C.B., Rowe, N.C., McCarrin, M.R.\
57200392013;7103322979;56331344200;\
Memory forensics and the Macintosh OS X operating system\
(2018) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, LNICST, 216, pp. 175-180. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85041105657&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-73697-6_13&partnerID=40&md5=f0226a977c9e0efb94b970919942453a\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-73697-6_13\
AFFILIATIONS: U.S. Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, CA  93940, United States\
ABSTRACT: Memory acquisition is essential to defeat anti-forensic operating system features and investigate clever cyberattacks that leave little or no evidence on physical storage media. The forensic community has developed tools to acquire physical memory from Apple\'92s Macintosh computers, but they have not much been tested. This work in progress tested three major OS X memory-acquisition tools. Although all tools tested could capture system memory in most cases, the open-source tool OSXPmem bettered its proprietary counterparts in reliability and support for memory configurations and versions of the OS X operating system. \'a9 ICST Institute for Computer Sciences, Social Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering 2018.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Acquisition;  Apple;  Digital forensics;  Macintosh;  MacQuisition;  Main memory;  OSX;  OSXPMem;  RECON;  Reserved area;  Testing\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 555\
Thekkekoodathil, V.T.K., Vijayaragavan, P.K.\
57200212497;57201197684;\
A model of legal and procedural framework for cybercrime investigation in India using digital image forensics\
(2018) Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, 632, pp. 163-172. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85040236204&doi=10.1007%2f978-981-10-5520-1_16&partnerID=40&md5=94b1586eeb074256548d507dcce80322\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-981-10-5520-1_16\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Applications, Cochin University of Science and Technology, Cochin, India\
ABSTRACT: Advances in technology lead people to a new space called cyberspace. It introduces a radical change in every span of society. Rapid growth of cyberspace leverages the proliferation of cybercrimes. Use of advanced cyber forensic tools gives confidence to the law enforcement agencies for investigating cybercrimes. Digital image forgery is an easy task by using free-of-cost image editing software. So the image-based cybercrimes are also increasing. There are tools and procedures for image forgery detection in digital image forensics. In the case of image as primary evidence in cybercrime, a law enforcement agency has to adopt a legal and procedural framework for their investigation process. This paper aims to propose a model of legal and procedural framework in cybercrime investigation where a digital image is considered as primary evidence. The model is constructed based on Indian laws and regulations. \'a9 Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyber law;  Cybercrime;  Cybercrime investigation;  Digital image forensics;  Image forgery\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 556\
Balogun, A.M., Zuva, T.\
57195716210;23394115800;\
Towards the Adoption of Software Engineering Principles for Assessing and Ensuring the Reliability of Digital Forensic Tools\
(2018) Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, 661, pp. 271-282. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85029576983&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-67618-0_25&partnerID=40&md5=f1d91d928e84ac55b5ecec2f43ab715a\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-67618-0_25\
AFFILIATIONS: Information and Communication Technology, Vaal University of Technology, Vanderbijlpark, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: The swift mutative nature of digital evidence generally makes it open to challenge from usually the disadvantaged party during an incident proceeding. The fairness of the eventual ruling passed, after considering evidence, to the involved parties is important. This brings about the meticulousness with which legal systems admit digital evidence into the facts required to decide lawsuits. In response, digital forensics practitioners employ standardized methodologies that stress and guide the preservation of the integrity of digital evidence. Validation of software used at various phases of a digital forensic investigation is an important procedure within such methodologies. This paper explores the possibility of demonstrating the reliability of digital forensics software by the methodology with which they were developed. Various software engineering principles are analyzed for strengths and limitations, to examine how reliable the evidence produced by software that implement such principle may be regarded. The DESMET feature analysis and benchmarking evaluation methods are proposed to determine the most appropriate set of software development principles for digital forensics tools, as far as ensuring their non-damaging interactions with evidence is concerned. The paper explains the benefits, limitations and concepts behind the feasibility of this tool validation technique, as the actual evaluations and demonstration are not yet in place. \'a9 2018, Springer International Publishing AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Forensic tools;  Software engineering principles;  Tools evaluation;  Tools reliability\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 557\
Zakariah, M., Khan, M.K., Malik, H.\
56982947300;8942252200;7006556079;\
Digital multimedia audio forensics: past, present and future\
(2018) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 77 (1), pp. 1009-1040. Cited 25 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85008686816&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-016-4277-2&partnerID=40&md5=1654466b16a4c7abcf1221d0b3bfecce\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-016-4277-2\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Computer and Information Sciences, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; \
Center of Excellence in Information Assurance (CoEIA), King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; \
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Michigan-Dearborn, Dearborn, MI, United States\
ABSTRACT: Digital audio forensics is used for a variety of applications ranging from authenticating audio files to link an audio recording to the acquisition device (e.g., microphone), and also linking to the acoustic environment in which the audio recording was made, and identifying traces of coding or transcoding. This survey paper provides an overview of the current state-of-the-art (SOA) in digital audio forensics and highlights some open research problems and future challenges in this active area of research. The paper categorizes the audio file analysis into container and content-based analysis in order to detect the authenticity of the file. Existing SOA, in audio forensics, is discussed based on both container and content-based analysis. The importance of this research topic has encouraged many researchers to contribute in this area; yet, further scopes are available to help researchers and readers expand the body of knowledge. The ultimate goal of this paper is to introduce all information on audio forensics and encourage researchers to solve the unanswered questions. Our survey paper would contribute to this critical research area, which has addressed many serious cases in the past, and help solve many more cases in the future by using advanced techniques with more accurate results. \'a9 2017, Springer Science+Business Media New York.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Audio authentication;  Digital forensics;  Environment detection;  Microphone identification;  Speech intelligibility;  Transcoding detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 558\
Bian, S., Luo, W., Huang, J.\
55581279300;18042301700;56057258200;\
Exposing video forgeries by detecting misaligned double compression\
(2017) ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, pp. 44-48. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85045834969&doi=10.1145%2f3177404.3177420&partnerID=40&md5=2f136d6e0de7c01e70a1af1ed1d87335\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3177404.3177420\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Mathematics and Informatics, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China; \
School of Data and Computer Science, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China; \
College of Information Engineering, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China\
ABSTRACT: Powerful and fast video editing software tools have made video tampering an easy work. In video forgeries, re-compression is one of the inevitable post-processing, so it is usually explored in video forensics works. However, most works only consider aligned double compression \'97 the order of frames remains unchanged before and after re-compression. In some cases, misaligned double compression could happen as well in video forgeries, such as video splicing, etc. In this paper, we propose an effective method to detect misaligned double compression. Based on extensive experiments and analysis, we found that H.264/AVC compression generates different strengths of blurring artifacts in different types of frames. After misaligned re-compression, such blurring artifacts introduced by the previous compression would be preserved in the re-compressed frames. Based on this observation, we propose a compact yet effective feature vector (MBAS) to expose video forgeries. The experiments evaluated on standard test sequences with a variety of encoding parameters have shown the effectiveness of the proposed method. \'a9 2017 Association for Computing Machinery.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Blurring artifacts;  Digital forensics;  Misaligned double compression;  Video tampering detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 559\
Iyer, R.P., Atrey, P.K., Varshney, G., Misra, M.\
57201984358;6603382021;57196839517;56223635000;\
Email spoofing detection using volatile memory forensics\
(2017) 2017 IEEE Conference on Communications and Network Security, CNS 2017, 2017-January, pp. 619-625. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85046631613&doi=10.1109%2fCNS.2017.8228692&partnerID=40&md5=548ebba1b9e4ad4d17074a41f9c5f993\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CNS.2017.8228692\
AFFILIATIONS: University at Albany, State University of New York, Albany, NY, United States; \
Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee, Roorkee, Uttarakhand, India\
ABSTRACT: In email systems, one of the most widely used attacks is email spoofing, in which the source address of the email message is forged to make the recipient of the email believe that the email was sent from a legitimate source. Several research works have been presented in the past to address email spoofing attack. Further, in recent years, the technique of memory forensics has evolved significantly where critical evidence is extracted from the volatile memory of the target machine during a cyber crime investigation. In this paper, we utilize memory forensics to detect if the client received any spoofed email. In addition, our memory forensics approach detects if the client replied to any spoofed emails. The memory of the client machine is acquired on a scheduled basis and the acquired memory dump is analyzed to identify spoofing attack and, if detected, storing the details in log files that can be used by cyber crime investigators. The benefit of applying memory forensics to detect spoofed emails is that it guarantees non-repudiation since every action performed on a computer is loaded in the system's physical memory, including email communication, and hence the user cannot deny receiving or replying to spoofed email. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Email spoofing;  Memory forensics;  Spoofing websites\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 560\
Gill, N.K., Garg, R., Doegar, E.A.\
57200495583;57200506639;39361254600;\
A review paper on digital image forgery detection techniques\
(2017) 8th International Conference on Computing, Communications and Networking Technologies, ICCCNT 2017, art. no. 8203904, . Cited 17 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85041426126&doi=10.1109%2fICCCNT.2017.8203904&partnerID=40&md5=d67834a16adb2ddf3aac4500af0d5432\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICCCNT.2017.8203904\
AFFILIATIONS: CSE, NITTTR, Chandigarh, India\
ABSTRACT: These days digital image forgery has turned out to be unsophisticated because of capable PCs, propelled image editing softwares and high resolution capturing gadgets. Checking the respectability of pictures and identifying hints of altering without requiring additional pre-embedded information of the picture or pre-installed watermarks are essential examine field. An endeavor is prepared to review the current improvements in the research area of advanced picture fraud detection and comprehensive reference index has been exhibited on passive methods for forgery identification. Passive techniques donot require pre-embedded information in the image. Several image forgery detection techniques are arranged first and after that their summed up organization is produced. Author will review the various image forgery detection techniques along with their results and also compare the various different techniques based on their accuracy. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Copy-move forgery detection;  Image Forensics;  Image splicing;  JPEG artifacts\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 561\
Soltani, S., Seno, S.A.H.\
57201910458;31767463800;\
A survey on digital evidence collection and analysis\
(2017) 2017 7th International Conference on Computer and Knowledge Engineering, ICCKE 2017, 2017-January, pp. 247-253. Cited 17 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85046493090&doi=10.1109%2fICCKE.2017.8167885&partnerID=40&md5=f64fe416a875443a29e72da587b40846\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICCKE.2017.8167885\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Engineering, Ferdowsi University of Mashhad, Mashhad, Iran\
ABSTRACT: The growth of digital technologies results in the growth of digital crimes. Digital forensics aims to collect crime-related evidence from various digital media and analyze it. This survey reviews several tools and methods in the literature which extract pieces of evidence from the system and analyze them. It also dfscusses the challenges during the collection and analysis of low level data from the compromised system. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  event reconstruction\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 562\
Li, H., Luo, W., Huang, J.\
55617662700;18042301700;56057258200;\
Localization of Diffusion-Based Inpainting in Digital Images\
(2017) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 12 (12), art. no. 7987733, pp. 3050-3064. Cited 31 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85028909121&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2017.2730822&partnerID=40&md5=0402a007112f50d75b070f3496e41f56\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2017.2730822\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electronics and Information Technology, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China; \
Guangdong Key Laboratory of Information Security Technology, School of Data and Computer Science, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China; \
Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Media Security, College of Information Engineering, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, 518052, China\
ABSTRACT: Image inpainting, an image processing technique for restoring missing or damaged image regions, can be utilized by forgers for removing objects in digital images. Since no obviously perceptible artifacts are left after inpainting, it is necessary to develop methods for detecting the presence of inpainting. In general, there are two main categories of image inpainting techniques: Exemplar-based and diffusion-based techniques. Although several methods have been proposed for detecting exemplar-based inpainting, there is still no effective method for detecting diffusion-based inpainting. Usually, the tampered regions manipulated by diffusion-based inpainting techniques are much smaller than those manipulated by exemplar-based ones, presenting more challenges in detecting these regions. As a pioneering attempt, this paper proposes a method for the localization of diffusion-based inpainted regions in digital images. We first analyze the diffusion process in inpainting, and observe that the changes in the image Laplacian along the direction perpendicular to the gradient are different in the inpainted and untouched regions. Following this observation, we construct a feature set based on the intra-channel and inter-channel local variances of the changes to identify the inpainted regions. Finally, two effective post-processing operations are designed for further refining of the localization result. The extensive experimental results evaluated on both synthetic and realistic inpainted images show the effectiveness of the proposed method. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: diffusion-based inpainting;  forgery localization;  Image forensics;  image inpainting\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 563\
Kingra, S., Aggarwal, N., Singh, R.D.\
57192255022;36875216400;56488829400;\
Inter-frame forgery detection in H.264 videos using motion and brightness gradients\
(2017) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 76 (24), pp. 25767-25786. Cited 15 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85019139524&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-017-4762-2&partnerID=40&md5=678a29305e1757e3504efe91885a00c5\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-017-4762-2\
AFFILIATIONS: UIET, Panjab University, Chandigarh, 160014, India\
ABSTRACT: In the midst of low cost and easy-to-use multimedia editing software, which make it exceedingly simple to tamper with digital content, the domain of digital multimedia forensics has attained considerable significance. This research domain deals with production of tools and techniques that enable authentication of digital evidence prior to its use in various critical and consequential matters, such as politics, criminal investigations, defense planning. This paper presents a forensic scheme for detection of frame-based tampering in digital videos, especially those captured by surveillance cameras. Frame-based tampering, which involves insertion, removal or duplication of frames into or from video sequences, is usually very difficult to detect via simple visual inspection. Such forgeries, however, disturb the temporal correlation among successive frames of the tampered video. These disturbances, when analyzed in an appropriate manner, help reveal the evidence of forgery. The forensic technique presented in this paper relies on objective analysis of prediction residual and optical flow gradients for the detection of frame-based tampering in MPEG-2 and H.264 encoded videos. The proposed technique is also capable of determining the exact location of the forgery in the given video sequence. Results of extensive experimentation in diverse and realistic forensic set-ups show that the proposed technique can detect and locate tampering with an average accuracy of 83% and 80% respectively, regardless of the number of frames inserted, removed or duplicated. \'a9 2017, Springer Science+Business Media New York.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Frame based tampering;  Inter-frame forgery;  Optical flow;  Prediction residual;  Video forgery detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 564\
Huang, C.C., Zhang, Y., Thing, V.L.L.\
55413101700;56013501000;6507064666;\
Inter-frame video forgery detection based on multi-level subtraction approach for realistic video forensic applications\
(2017) 2017 IEEE 2nd International Conference on Signal and Image Processing, ICSIP 2017, 2017-January, pp. 20-24. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85043467939&doi=10.1109%2fSIPROCESS.2017.8124498&partnerID=40&md5=2b3ea94fa5f3900677c2ba41ff1cafea\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SIPROCESS.2017.8124498\
AFFILIATIONS: Cyber Security Cluster, Institute for Infocomm Research, Agency for Science, Technology and Research, Singapore\
ABSTRACT: Video forgery acts have been increasing in recent years due to the easy accessibility of sophisticated video editing software. Criminals may be using video tampering as a way to get acquitted on the basis that the video evidences presented in court could not prove that they have performed the crime at a particular time or place. For high profile criminal court cases, it is likely that a video that is altered slightly will be considered as unacceptable. A highly accurate forgery detection system can therefore help in ensuring the authenticity of the video evidences. In this paper, a novel Multi-Level Subtraction (MLS) approach was proposed for video frame insertion forgery detection achieving a recall rate of 93.92% and precision rate of 100% on a forensically realistic video database. Experiments also demonstrated the efficacy of MLS system in system accuracy over other modern video forgery detection techniques available today. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: MLS;  Precision rate;  Recall rate;  Video forgery detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 565\
Cover, A., Posser, R.D., Campos, J.P.A., Rieder, R.\
57202442384;57202445843;57202440990;24597781600;\
Methodology of communication between a criminal database and a virtual reality environment for forensic study [Metodologia de Comunicacao entre uma Base de Dados Pericial e um Ambiente de Realidade Virtual para Estudo de Pericia Forense]\
(2017) Proceedings - 19th Symposium on Virtual and Augmented Reality, SVR 2017, 2017-November, pp. 215-222. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85048372105&doi=10.1109%2fSVR.2017.35&partnerID=40&md5=70507143baf80e995535a009eee3193f\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SVR.2017.35\
AFFILIATIONS: Programa de P\'f3s-Gradua\'e7\'e3o em Computa\'e7\'e3o Aplicada (PPGCA), Universidade de Passo Fundo (UPF), Passo Fundo, RS, Brazil\
ABSTRACT: This work aims to present a methodology of communication between a criminal database and a virtual environment for forensic study, using a proprietary software and a virtual reality prototype, in order to support forensic science activities. The objective is to assist the forensic professional offering the use of criminal investigation resources inside a crime scene simulation, with sensations of interaction, immersion and direct manipulation of the scene objects. For a case study, a forensic literature crime scene was previously selected and modeled in a virtual environment, supporting visualization and interaction with 3D objects and the information contained in the expert's forensic report. The association between the objects of interest and the crime evidences followed a predefined simple guidelines and the registers were stored in CSV files, exported from the system which the main business rule is to generate forensic reports in digital format. As a result, a first good impression was reached considering the virtual environment and the forensic data presentation, from reports of two forensic experts, two criminal lawyers and two end-users. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Communication methodology;  Forensic science;  Immersion;  Simulation;  Virtual Reality\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 566\
Schetinger, V., Iuliani, M., Piva, A., Oliveira, M.M.\
56386218800;56685528500;7005293392;10141769500;\
Image forgery detection confronts image composition\
(2017) Computers and Graphics (Pergamon), 68, pp. 152-163. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85030243228&doi=10.1016%2fj.cag.2017.08.014&partnerID=40&md5=2fc736471b01a18e7c11bba77b81d1d0\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.cag.2017.08.014\
AFFILIATIONS: Instituto de Inform\'e1tica, UFRGS, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil; \
Laboratorio Elaborazione Segnali e Comunicazione, UNIFI, Florence, Italy\
ABSTRACT: The field of image composition is constantly trying to improve the ways in which an image can be altered and enhanced. While this is usually done in the name of aesthetics and practicality, it also provides tools that can be used to maliciously alter images. In this sense, the field of digital image forensics has to be prepared to deal with the influx of new technologies, in a constant arms-race. In this paper, the current state of this arms-race is analyzed, surveying the state-of-the-art. We provide a gentle introduction to both fields, along with theoretical grounding to aid the discussion. Experiments were performed to understand the impact of composition techniques on common forensics traces. We show that even though research in forensics is not focused on advanced forms of image composition, it possesses the basic tools to detect it. \'a9 2017 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital image forensics;  Image composition;  Image forgery detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 567\
Schetinger, V., Oliveira, M.M., da Silva, R., Carvalho, T.J.\
56386218800;10141769500;55413079400;36809208200;\
Humans are easily fooled by digital images\
(2017) Computers and Graphics (Pergamon), 68, pp. 142-151. Cited 20 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85030097548&doi=10.1016%2fj.cag.2017.08.010&partnerID=40&md5=4e99699c170bb04b383c9f76df797352\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.cag.2017.08.010\
AFFILIATIONS: Instituto de Inform\'e1tica, UFRGSPorto Alegre, Brazil; \
Instituto de F\'edsica, UFRGSPorto Alegre, Brazil; \
Instituto Federal de Educa\'e7\'e3o, Ci\'eancia e Tecnologia de S\'e3o Paulo, IFSPCampinas, Brazil\
ABSTRACT: Digital images are everywhere, from social media to news and scientific papers. This paper describes an extensive user study to evaluate the ability of an average individual to spot edited images. By design, our study avoids lucky guesses. After observing an image, subjects were asked if it is authentic or not. Whenever a subject indicated that an image has been altered, (s)he had to provide evidence to support the answer by pointing at the suspected region in the image. We collected 17,208 individual answers from 393 volunteers, using 177 images selected from public forensic databases. Our results indicate that the average individual is not good at distinguishing original from edited images, answering correctly on 58% of all images, and only identifying the modified ones 46.5% of the time. This performance is superior to random guessing, but poor compared to results achieved by computational techniques. \'a9 2017 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Behavior forensics;  Digital image forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 568\
Muzaffer, G., Uluta\uc0\u351 , G., Gedikli, E.\
57188851973;25652521200;8507392800;\
PSO and SURF based digital image forgery detection\
(2017) 2nd International Conference on Computer Science and Engineering, UBMK 2017, art. no. 8093499, pp. 688-692. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85040610842&doi=10.1109%2fUBMK.2017.8093499&partnerID=40&md5=75776d7ea46c5faf74e9a5ebbd6854db\
\
DOI: 10.1109/UBMK.2017.8093499\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Engineering, Karadeniz Technical University, Trabzon, Turkey\
ABSTRACT: Digital images have become very important in our daily lives and some other important areas such as medicine, journalism and it can be also used as forensic evidence. However, the simplicity of using digital images with freely available software tools makes the authenticity of images questionable. The most common image forgery type is copy move forgery because it can be done easily but the detection of this type of forgery is hard. Various approaches are proposed in literature to detection of copy move forgery, but lots of them is not satisfy result especially smooth regions are used to hide objects. And lots of works use experience parameters values so sometimes they cannot detect forgery operations. To solve these problems we proposed an optimized keypoint based copy move forgery detection methods based on Speeded-Up Robust Features (SURF) algorithm and Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO). Experimental results show that the proposed method has good performance even under post processing and preprocessing attacks (such as blurring, noise addition, rotation, JPEG compression). \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Copy move forgery;  Keypoint based method;  Particle swarm optimization;  PSO;  SURF\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 569\
Varol, A., S\'f6nmez, Y.U.\
15058298400;57200279627;\
Review of evidence analysis and reporting phases in digital forensics process\
(2017) 2nd International Conference on Computer Science and Engineering, UBMK 2017, art. no. 8093563, pp. 923-928. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85040607726&doi=10.1109%2fUBMK.2017.8093563&partnerID=40&md5=f968f82c3674b6c3f12f121b922660b9\
\
DOI: 10.1109/UBMK.2017.8093563\
AFFILIATIONS: Firat University, Faculty of Technology, Elazi\uc0\u487 , Turkey\
ABSTRACT: This paper reviews digital forensic phases and problems in evidence analysis phase and smart methods in this area. Among these phases, studies on the evidence analysis phase are examined. In the analysis of electronic evidences, use of smart methods and their development will contribute to information technology law and improvement of digital forensic devices. Effective evidence analysis both provides easiness for digital forensic experts and helps jurists tor accurate decisions. In this paper, digital forensic process and smart methods used in evidence analysis are examined. This literature survey discussed which new methods can be added to this process. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics phases;  Evidence analysis phase;  Smart methods\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 570\
Michalas, A., Murray, R.\
36976143300;57201089397;\
MemTri: A memory forensics triage tool using Bayesian network and volatility\
(2017) MIST 2017 - Proceedings of the 2017 International Workshop on Managing Insider Security Threats, co-located with CCS 2017, 2017-January, pp. 57-66. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85043369849&doi=10.1145%2f3139923.3139926&partnerID=40&md5=29ca1b374077d9bae48daa0f21087dbf\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3139923.3139926\
AFFILIATIONS: Cyber Security Group, Department of Computer Science, University of Westminster, London, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: This work explores the development of MemTri. A memory forensics triage tool that can assess the likelihood of criminal activity in a memory image, based on evidence data artefacts generated by several applications. Fictitious illegal suspect activity scenarios were performed on virtual machines to generate 60 test memory images for input into MemTri. Four categories of applications (i.e. Internet Browsers, Instant Messengers, FTP Client and Document Processors) are examined for data artefacts located through the use of regular expressions. These identified data artefacts are then analysed using a Bayesian Network, to assess the likelihood that a seized memory image contained evidence of illegal firearms trading activity. MemTri's normal mode of operation achieved a high artefact identification accuracy performance of 95.7% when the applications' processes were running. However, this fell significantly to 60% as applications processes' were terminated. To explore improving MemTri's accuracy performance, a second mode was developed, which achieved more stable results of around 80% accuracy, even after applications processes' were terminated. \'a9 2017 Association for Computing Machinery.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyber crime;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Random access memory;  Triage\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 571 **SELECTED** SID: 31\
G\'fcl, M., Kugu, E.\
57200139994;35213540200;\
A survey on anti-forensics techniques\
(2017) IDAP 2017 - International Artificial Intelligence and Data Processing Symposium, art. no. 8090341, . Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85039918527&doi=10.1109%2fIDAP.2017.8090341&partnerID=40&md5=a3467d7c1ba22d85927e53451a3c66f7\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IDAP.2017.8090341\
AFFILIATIONS: Hezarfen Aeronautics and Space Technologies Institute, National Defense University, Ye\uc0\u351 ilyurt, Istanbul, Turkey\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics methodologies and tools have become a crucial part for investigation of cybercrimes and collecting digital evidences in a case. Digital forensics experts usually follow a common workflow and use known methodologies and tools while investigating a case. Attackers and cybercriminals also know which methodologies are used in an investigation and how digital forensics tools work. As a consequence, they started to find and implement a new methodology which is called anti-forensics for deceiving investigator or having a case lasts longer than expected. Anti-forensics has been acknowledged as a legitimate field of study recently, therefore it can be considered as an emerging area of interest and there is a lack of knowledge about anti-forensics techniques. This paper aims to make mention of the anti-forensics techniques such as Data Pooling; Non-Standart RAID'ed Disks; Manipulating File Signatures; Restricted Filenames; Manipulating MACE (file Modified, Accessed, Created and Entry) Times; Loop References; Hash Collisions; Dummy HDDs and proposals for mitigating these techniques. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti anti-forensics;  Anti forensics;  Counter forensics;  Digital forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 572\
Dafale, N.N., Naskar, R.\
57200142584;53866980700;\
Sensor pattern noise based source anonymization\
(2017) Proceedings of 2017 3rd IEEE International Conference on Sensing, Signal Processing and Security, ICSSS 2017, art. no. 8071572, pp. 93-98. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85039918410&doi=10.1109%2fSSPS.2017.8071572&partnerID=40&md5=c1403c8a72791e62e9d1359bf00ce7e8\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SSPS.2017.8071572\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, National Institute of Technology, Rourkela-Rourkela, Odisha  769008, India\
ABSTRACT: In today's digital world, images are utilized as a method of communication in all spheres of life. Counter Forensics is the art and science of impeding and misleading forensic analysis of digital images. Camera sensor pattern noise is efficient in blind image source device identification. In this paper, we deliver an attack on digital images, where we completely remove the traces of sensor pattern noises of their source devices, so as to deceive forensic investigations. Next, we substitute the sensor pattern of a given image with that of a different (wrong) source device, such that it now appears to the forensic analyst, that the image was produced by device B, whereas originally it was produced by A. Our experimental results prove that high correlation is achieved between a tampered image and a wrong device, suggesting considerably high degree of anonymity, hence misleading forensics investigation. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Counter forensics;  Device identification;  Digital forensics;  Sensor pattern noise\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 573\
Pyo, Y., Lee, C., Lee, H.\
57190978011;57190973386;14024523600;\
Visual analysis of corrupted video data in video event data recorders\
(2017) 2017 IEEE Conference on Dependable and Secure Computing, art. no. 8073828, pp. 453-458. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85039897776&doi=10.1109%2fDESEC.2017.8073828&partnerID=40&md5=342e9c117a49b5b6e142a81ee7950d4a\
\
DOI: 10.1109/DESEC.2017.8073828\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Korea University, Seoul, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: With the rapid proliferation of video event data recorders (VEDRs), video file data from VEDRs are often used as the primary evidence in many fields, such as law enforcement. In this paper, we propose a method for reconstructing corrupted video files and capturing key events recorded in the video file for use as valid evidence. The method first extracts image features from each video frame and constructs a multidimensional vector. Subsequently, dimension reduction of these vectors is performed for visualization in low-dimensional space. The proper sequence of the video frames is restored by using a curve fitting technique for the low-dimensional vectors. Then, we calculate the change in the slope of the curve-fitted model to detect key events in video files. The proposed method generates significant results not provided by existing file recovery techniques. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Video event detection;  Video sequence reconstruction;  Visualization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 574\
Patil, R.Y., Devane, S.R.\
56374013100;24461215900;\
Unmasking of Source Identity, a Step Beyond in Cyber Forensic\
(2017) ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, pp. 157-164. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85042137778&doi=10.1145%2f3136825.3136870&partnerID=40&md5=8fea1e00581e4dd43acd82a2363afd1b\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3136825.3136870\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Engineering, A. C. Patil College of Engineering, Mumbai, India; \
Department of Information Technology, Datta Meghe College of Engineering, Mumbai, India\
ABSTRACT: Increasing number of digital crime raises the need of investigation where the most critical step is to collect the evidences of attack and find the real origin of the attack. However the attacker can easily spoof the source IP address and hence the source IP address information in IP header of the packet cannot be considered as the evidence against the attacker. Traceback based network forensic is the category of techniques which can be used to accurately identify the source of the attack. The up-to-date analysis is required to construct the new methods for finding exact source. The detail issues and challenges in identifying the source has been investigated and discussed in this paper. \'a9 2017 Association for Computing Machinery.ACM\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyber Crime;  Forensic;  Packet Marking;  Traceback\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 575\
Sitara, K., Mehtre, B.M.\
55492903000;56042150000;\
A comprehensive approach for exposing inter-frame video forgeries\
(2017) Proceedings - 2017 IEEE 13th International Colloquium on Signal Processing and its Applications, CSPA 2017, art. no. 8064927, pp. 73-78. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85034863459&doi=10.1109%2fCSPA.2017.8064927&partnerID=40&md5=20ca67c806394a525fb36080ef964f3d\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CSPA.2017.8064927\
AFFILIATIONS: Center for Cyber Security, Institute for Development and Research in Banking Technology (IDRBT), Established by Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Hyderabad, India; \
School of Computer Science and Information Sciences, University of Hyderabad, Hyderabad, India\
ABSTRACT: Validating the authenticity and integrity of videos appearing on mass and social media is a challenging problem with rapid technological advancement in video editing software. Video editing can be easily accomplished without much effort; however, the consequences can be severe. Tampering of digital video in the temporal domain involves a number of techniques like replication, insertion, shuffling and removal of frames which can be performed even by na\'efve users. Evidences presented in video formats are more appealing and acceptable in the court of law. Therefore, it is important to devise techniques for video forgery detection in digital forensics. In this paper, we propose a comprehensive tamper detection method that exploits abnormalities in the spatio-temporal domain along with that in the compressed domain. Frame shuffling detection which remained as an unexplored area for long time is addressed in our work. We are able to localize and differentiate the type of tampering present in video. Experimental results on 78 videos show that the proposed method outperforms an existing method in terms of accuracy. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Frame deletion;  Frame duplication;  Frame insertion;  Frame shuffling;  Video Compression;  Video forensics;  Video tampering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 576\
Mahmood, T., Irtaza, A., Mehmood, Z., Tariq Mahmood, M.\
56081146500;54882450900;57190517865;57195410221;\
Copy\'96move forgery detection through stationary wavelets and local binary pattern variance for forensic analysis in digital images\
(2017) Forensic Science International, 279, pp. 8-21. Cited 39 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85027867496&doi=10.1016%2fj.forsciint.2017.07.037&partnerID=40&md5=4c7af2a9004bf60239c13a96597f655f\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2017.07.037\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Engineering, University of Engineering and Technology, Taxila, 47050, Pakistan; \
Department of Computer Science, University of Engineering and Technology, Taxila, 47050, Pakistan; \
Department of Software Engineering, University of Engineering and Technology, Taxila, 47050, Pakistan; \
School of Computer Science and Engineering, Korea University of Technology and Education, Cheonan, 330-708, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: The most common image tampering often for malicious purposes is to copy a region of the same image and paste to hide some other region. As both regions usually have same texture properties, therefore, this artifact is invisible for the viewers, and credibility of the image becomes questionable in proof centered applications. Hence, means are required to validate the integrity of the image and identify the tampered regions. Therefore, this study presents an efficient way of copy-move forgery detection (CMFD) through local binary pattern variance (LBPV) over the low approximation components of the stationary wavelets. CMFD technique presented in this paper is applied over the circular regions to address the possible post processing operations in a better way. The proposed technique is evaluated on CoMoFoD and Kodak lossless true color image (KLTCI) datasets in the presence of translation, flipping, blurring, rotation, scaling, color reduction, brightness change and multiple forged regions in an image. The evaluation reveals the prominence of the proposed technique compared to state of the arts. Consequently, the proposed technique can reliably be applied to detect the modified regions and the benefits can be obtained in journalism, law enforcement, judiciary, and other proof critical domains. \'a9 2017 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Circular block;  Digital forensic;  Forged region detection;  Image tampering;  Passive authentication\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 577\
McDonald, J.T., Manikyam, R., Glisson, W.B., Andel, T.R., Gu, Y.X.\
36027126600;57192808701;15848187400;14047854100;37002441000;\
Enhanced operating system protection to support digital forensic investigations\
(2017) Proceedings - 16th IEEE International Conference on Trust, Security and Privacy in Computing and Communications, 11th IEEE International Conference on Big Data Science and Engineering and 14th IEEE International Conference on Embedded Software and Systems, Trustcom/BigDataSE/ICESS 2017, art. no. 8029499, pp. 650-659. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85032375340&doi=10.1109%2fTrustcom%2fBigDataSE%2fICESS.2017.296&partnerID=40&md5=908086a14e74ee937dcb345394852aad\
\
DOI: 10.1109/Trustcom/BigDataSE/ICESS.2017.296\
AFFILIATIONS: University of South Alabama, Mobile, AL, United States; \
IRDETO, Ottawa, Canada\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensic investigators today are faced with numerous problems when recovering footprints of criminal activity that involve the use of computer systems. Investigators need the ability to recover evidence in a forensically sound manner, even when criminals actively work to alter the integrity, veracity, and provenance of data, applications and software that are used to support illicit activities. In many ways, operating systems (OS) can be strengthened from a technological viewpoint to support verifiable, accurate, and consistent recovery of system data when needed for forensic collection efforts. In this paper, we extend the ideas for forensic-friendly OS design by proposing the use of a practical form of computing on encrypted data (CED) and computing with encrypted functions (CEF) which builds upon prior work on component encryption (in circuits) and white-box cryptography (in software). We conduct experiments on sample programs to provide analysis of the approach based on security and efficiency, illustrating how component encryption can strengthen key OS functions and improve tamper-resistance to anti-forensic activities. We analyze the tradeoff space for use of the algorithm in a holistic approach that provides additional security and comparable properties to fully homomorphic encryption (FHE). \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Component encryption;  Evidence collection;  Forensic software;  Obfuscation;  Operating system extensions;  Security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 578\
Tariang, D.B., Roy, A., Chakraborty, R.S., Naskar, R.\
57191624828;56577005700;56194286800;53866980700;\
Automated JPEG forgery detection with correlation based localization\
(2017) 2017 IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo Workshops, ICMEW 2017, art. no. 8026326, pp. 226-231. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85031663466&doi=10.1109%2fICMEW.2017.8026326&partnerID=40&md5=03a16e36dad20c9e60330f88e9e89228\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICMEW.2017.8026326\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, West Bengal, 721302, India; \
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, National Institute of Technology, Rourkela, Odisha, 769008, India\
ABSTRACT: With the proliferation of the availability of highly sophisticated editing tools, the authenticity of digital images has now become questionable. An adversary may perform copy-paste forgery where portions from JPEG image files are copy-pasted into another image file (JPEG, TIFF, etc.) and then save it in uncompressed format (TIFF). It is known that tampered JPEG images contain traces of compression artifacts. In this paper, we propose an automated blind JPEG image forgery detection and localization technique with high detection accuracy, which is effective for identifying traces of JPEG compression in digital images saved in uncompressed format (TIFF). The forgery detection and localization is based on the computation and analysis of a correlation matrix calculated by recompressing the given (possibly tampered) image at different quality factors and then comparing the recompressed versions with the given image. The experimental results prove our technique has high detection and localization accuracy as compared to the existing techniques. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: compression;  Digital image forensics;  Joint Photographic Experts Group (JPEG);  quality factor;  tamper detection;  tamper localization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 579\
Casey, E., Barnum, S., Griffith, R., Snyder, J., van Beek, H., Nelson, A.\
9843819800;8215130600;57191311770;57195489071;22434224000;7401443545;\
Advancing coordinated cyber-investigations and tool interoperability using a community developed specification language\
(2017) Digital Investigation, 22, pp. 14-45. Cited 25 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85028386648&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2017.08.002&partnerID=40&md5=06a5edaba22961804999be4520804991\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2017.08.002\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Lausanne, Switzerland; \
MITRE, United States; \
DoD Cyber Crime Center, United States; \
Netherlands Forensic Institute, Netherlands; \
National Institute of Standards and Technology, United States\
ABSTRACT: Any investigation can have a digital dimension, often involving information from multiple data sources, organizations and jurisdictions. Existing approaches to representing and exchanging cyber-investigation information are inadequate, particularly when combining data sources from numerous organizations or dealing with large amounts of data from various tools. To conduct investigations effectively, there is a pressing need to harmonize how this information is represented and exchanged. This paper addresses this need for information exchange and tool interoperability with an open community-developed specification language called Cyber-investigation Analysis Standard Expression (CASE). To further promote a common structure, CASE aligns with and extends the Unified Cyber Ontology (UCO) construct, which provides a format for representing information in all cyber domains. This ontology abstracts objects and concepts that are not CASE-specific, so that they can be used across other cyber disciplines that may extend UCO. This work is a rational evolution of the Digital Forensic Analysis eXpression (DFAX) for representing digital forensic information and provenance. CASE is more flexible than DFAX and can be utilized in any context, including criminal, corporate and intelligence. CASE also builds on the Hansken data model developed and implemented by the Netherlands Forensic Institute (NFI). CASE enables the fusion of information from different organizations, data sources, and forensic tools to foster more comprehensive and cohesive analysis. This paper includes illustrative examples of how CASE can be implemented and used to capture information in a structured form to advance sharing, interoperability and analysis in cyber-investigations. In addition to capturing technical details and relationships between objects, CASE provides structure for representing and sharing details about how cyber-information was handled, transferred, processed, analyzed, and interpreted. CASE also supports data marking for sharing information at different levels of trust and classification, and for protecting sensitive and private information. Furthermore, CASE supports the sharing of knowledge related to cyber-investigations, including distinctive patterns of activity/behavior that are common across cases. This paper features a proof-of-concept Application Program Interface (API) to facilitate implementation of CASE in tools. Community members are encouraged to participate in the development and implementation of CASE and UCO. \'a9 2017\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyber-investigation;  CybOX;  DFAX;  DFXML;  Digital evidence exchange;  Digital forensics;  Evidence provenance;  Information sharing;  Specification language;  Standard representation;  Unified cyber ontology\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 580\
Baig, Z.A., Szewczyk, P., Valli, C., Rabadia, P., Hannay, P., Chernyshev, M., Johnstone, M., Kerai, P., Ibrahim, A., Sansurooah, K., Syed, N., Peacock, M.\
14008320400;36683098900;7003263986;56447114400;26421162700;56446908300;55628590916;55421026800;55613229690;55327393900;57195356507;57192211809;\
Future challenges for smart cities: Cyber-security and digital forensics\
(2017) Digital Investigation, 22, pp. 3-13. Cited 84 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85027456918&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2017.06.015&partnerID=40&md5=f7de9669ecaf8157d15d0b5602acce85\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2017.06.015\
AFFILIATIONS: Security Research Institute & School of Science, Edith Cowan University, Perth, 6027, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Smart cities are comprised of diverse and interconnected components constantly exchanging data and facilitating improved living for a nation's population. Our view of a typical smart city consists of four key components, namely, Smart Grids, Building Automation Systems (BAS), Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), Smart Vehicles; with enabling Internet of Things (IoT) sensors and the Cloud platform. The adversarial threats and criminal misuses in a smart city are increasingly heterogenous and significant, with provisioning of resilient and end-to-end security being a daunting task. When a cyber incident involving critical components of the smart city infrastructure occurs, appropriate measures can be taken to identify and enumerate concrete evidence to facilitate the forensic investigation process. Forensic preparedness and lessons learned from past forensic analysis can help protect the smart city against future incidents. This paper presents a holistic view of the security landscape of a smart city, identifying security threats and providing deep insight into digital investigation in the context of the smart city. \'a9 2017 Elsevier Ltd\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 581\
Clarke, N., Li, F., Furnell, S.\
8961310300;55494495900;7003551084;\
A novel privacy preserving user identification approach for network traffic\
(2017) Computers and Security, 70, pp. 335-350. Cited 16 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85024395564&doi=10.1016%2fj.cose.2017.06.012&partnerID=40&md5=45e6b52a21b699ffecdcd9a096d11cf3\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.cose.2017.06.012\
AFFILIATIONS: Centre for Security, Communications and Network Research, University of Plymouth, Plymouth, United Kingdom; \
Security Research Institute, Edith Cowan UniversityWA, Australia; \
Centre for Research in Information and Cyber Security, Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University, Port Elizabeth, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: The prevalence of the Internet and cloud-based applications, alongside the technological evolution of smartphones, tablets and smartwatches, has resulted in users relying upon network connectivity more than ever before. This results in an increasingly voluminous footprint with respect to the network traffic that is created as a consequence. For network forensic examiners, this traffic represents a vital source of independent evidence in an environment where anti-forensics is increasingly challenging the validity of computer-based forensics. Performing network forensics today largely focuses upon an analysis based upon the Internet Protocol (IP) address \'96 as this is the only characteristic available. More typically, however, investigators are not actually interested in the IP address but rather the associated user (whose account might have been compromised). However, given the range of devices (e.g., laptop, mobile, and tablet) that a user might be using and the widespread use of DHCP, IP is not a reliable and consistent means of understanding the traffic from a user. This paper presents a novel approach to the identification of users from network traffic using only the meta-data of the traffic (i.e. rather than payload) and the creation of application-level user interactions, which are proven to provide a far richer discriminatory feature set to enable more reliable identity verification. A study involving data collected from 46 users over a two-month period generated over 112 GBs of meta-data traffic was undertaken to examine the novel user-interaction based feature extraction algorithm. On an individual application basis, the approach can achieve recognition rates of 90%, with some users experiencing recognition performance of 100%. The consequence of this recognition is an enormous reduction in the volume of traffic an investigator has to analyse, allowing them to focus upon a particular suspect or enabling them to disregard traffic and focus upon what is left. \'a9 2017 The Author(s)\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Biometrics;  Digital forensics;  Network forensics;  Network metadata;  Traffic analysis;  User identification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 582\
Chen, Z., Zhao, Y., Ni, R.\
57196282093;35304414700;55632437300;\
Detection of operation chain: JPEG-Resampling-JPEG\
(2017) Signal Processing: Image Communication, 57, pp. 8-20. Cited 19 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85018793111&doi=10.1016%2fj.image.2017.04.008&partnerID=40&md5=278276a8905b3d5f8f2617489b794bad\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.image.2017.04.008\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Information Science, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, 100044, China; \
Beijing Key Laboratory of Advanced Information Science and Network Technology, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, 100044, China; \
Department of Computer Science, Tangshan Normal University, Tangshan, 063000, China\
ABSTRACT: The goal of forensic investigators is to reveal the processing history of a digital image. Many forensic techniques are devoted to detecting the intrinsic traces left by image processing and tampering. However, existing forensic techniques are easily defeated in presence of pre- and post-processing. In real scenarios, images may be sequentially manipulated by a series of operations (the so called \'93operation chain\'94). This paper addresses the operation chain consisting of JPEG compression and resampling. The transformed block artifacts (TBAG) characterizing this operation chain are analysed at both the pixel and discrete cosine transforms (DCT) domain and are utilized to design the detection scheme. Both theoretical analysis and experimental results show the effectiveness of our proposed scheme on identifying the resampled JPEG images as well as the JPEG images undergone resampling and then JPEG recompression. Moreover, the proposed approach can be used to estimate the resampling factors for restoring the whole operation chain. \'a9 2017 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  JPEG compression;  Operation chain detection;  Resampling\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 583\
Alruban, A., Clarke, N., Li, F., Furnell, S.\
54392592200;8961310300;55494495900;7003551084;\
Insider misuse attribution using biometrics\
(2017) ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, Part F130521, art. no. a42, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85030330103&doi=10.1145%2f3098954.3103160&partnerID=40&md5=b2b359d88a2f30e980589ea0dcf967aa\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3098954.3103160\
AFFILIATIONS: Centre for Security,Communications and Network Research, Plymouth University, Plymouth, United Kingdom; \
Computer Sciences and Information Technology College, Majmaah University, Majmaah, Saudi Arabia; \
Security Research Institute, Edith Cowan University, Perth, Australia; \
Centre for Research in Information and Cyber Security, Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University, Port Elizabeth, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: Insider misuse has become a major risk for many organizations. One of the most common forms of misuses is data leakage. Such threats have turned into a real challenge to overcome and mitigate. Whilst prevention is important, incidents will inevitably occur and as such attribution of the leakage is key to ensuring appropriate recourse. Although digital forensics capability has grown rapidly in the process of analyzing the digital evidences, a key barrier is often being able to associate the evidence back to an individual who leaked the data. Stolen credentials and the Trojan defense are two commonly cited arguments used to complicate the issue of attribution. Furthermore, the use of a digital certificate or user ID would only associate to the account not to the individual. This paper proposes a more proactive model whereby a user's biometric information is transparently captured (during normal interactions) and embedding within the digital objects they interact with (thereby providing a direct link between the last user using any document or object). An investigation into the possibility of embedding individuals' biometric signals into image files is presented, with a particular focus upon the ability to recover the biometric information under varying degrees of modification attack. The experimental results show that even when the watermarked object is significantly modified (e.g. only 25% of the image is available) it is still possible to recover those embedded biometric information. \'a9 2017 Association for Computing Machinery.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Biometrics;  Data leak;  Digital forensics;  Guilty identification;  Steganography\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 584\
Zia, T., Liu, P., Han, W.\
15064879400;36727836300;7401899870;\
Application-specific digital forensics investigative model in internet of things (IoT)\
(2017) ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, Part F130521, art. no. a55, . Cited 17 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85030322763&doi=10.1145%2f3098954.3104052&partnerID=40&md5=43e5ec22f82974431f69dd4da8147401\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3098954.3104052\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computing and Mathematics, Charles Sturt UniversityNSW, Australia; \
College of Information Sciences and Technology, Pennsylvania State UniversityPA, United States; \
Software School, Fudan University, Shanghai, China\
ABSTRACT: Besides its enormous benefits to the industry and community the Internet of Things (IoT) has introduced unique security challenges to its enablers and adopters. As the trend in cybersecurity threats continue to grow, it is likely to influence IoT deployments. Therefore it is eminent that besides strengthening the security of IoT systems we develop effective digital forensics techniques that when breaches occur we can track the sources of attacks and bring perpetrators to the due process with reliable digital evidence. The biggest challenge in this regard is the heterogeneous nature of devices in IoT systems and lack of unified standards. In this paper we investigate digital forensics from IoT perspectives. We argue that besides traditional digital forensics practices it is important to have application-specific forensics in place to ensure collection of evidence in context of specific IoT applications. We consider top three IoT applications and introduce a model which deals with not just traditional forensics but is applicable in digital as well as application-specific forensics process. We believe that the proposed model will enable collection, examination, analysis and reporting of forensically sound evidence in an IoT application-specific digital forensics investigation. \'a9 2017 Association for Computing Machinery.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Digital forensics model;  Internet of things;  IoT;  IoT applications;  IoT forensics;  IoT security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 585\
Alrajeh, D., Pasquale, L., Nuseibeh, B.\
23392032100;57210598946;12644975200;\
On evidence preservation requirements for forensic-ready systems\
(2017) Proceedings of the ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, Part F130154, pp. 559-569. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85030783687&doi=10.1145%2f3106237.3106308&partnerID=40&md5=fdd4907c17a1324f3c50e8df8b149b97\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3106237.3106308\
AFFILIATIONS: Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom; \
University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland; \
Open University, United Kingdom; \
Lero, Ireland\
ABSTRACT: Forensic readiness denotes the capability of a system to support digital forensic investigations of potential, known incidents by preserving in advance data that could serve as evidence explaining how an incident occurred. Given the increasing rate at which (potentially criminal) incidents occur, designing software systems that are forensic-ready can facilitate and reduce the costs of digital forensic investigations. However, to date, little or no attention has been given to how forensic-ready software systems can be designed systematically. In this paper we propose to explicitly represent evidence preservation requirements prescribing preservation of the minimal amount of data that would be relevant to a future digital investigation. We formalise evidence preservation requirements and propose an approach for synthesising specifications for systems to meet these requirements. We present our prototype implementation- based on a satisfiability solver and a logic-based learner-which we use to evaluate our approach, applying it to two digital forensic corpora. Our evaluation suggests that our approach preserves relevant data that could support hypotheses of potential incidents. Moreover, it enables significant reduction in the volume of data that would need to be examined during an investigation. \'a9 2017 Association for Computing Machinery.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forensic-ready systems;  Requirements;  Specification synthesis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 586\
Case, A., Das, A.K., Park, S.-J., Ramanujam, J.R., Richard, G.G., III\
24491528600;56693483100;7501830301;7003414228;7102387624;\
Gaslight: A comprehensive fuzzing architecture for memory forensics frameworks\
(2017) Digital Investigation, 22, pp. S86-S93. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85026748095&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2017.06.011&partnerID=40&md5=119f667a35dd002657651cc03f14402e\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2017.06.011\
AFFILIATIONS: Volatility Foundation, United States; \
Center for Computation and Technology, Louisiana State University, United States; \
School of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science, Louisiana State University, United States\
ABSTRACT: Memory forensics is now a standard component of digital forensic investigations and incident response handling, since memory forensic techniques are quite effective in uncovering artifacts that might be missed by traditional storage forensics or live analysis techniques. Because of the crucial role that memory forensics plays in investigations and because of the increasing use of automation of memory forensics techniques, it is imperative that these tools be resilient to memory smear and deliberate tampering. Without robust algorithms, malware may go undetected, frameworks may crash when attempting to process memory samples, and automation of memory forensics techniques is difficult. In this paper we present Gaslight, a powerful and flexible fuzz-testing architecture for stress-testing both open and closed-source memory forensics frameworks. Gaslight automatically targets critical code paths that process memory samples and mutates samples in an efficient way to reveal implementation errors. In experiments we conducted against several popular memory forensics frameworks, Gaslight revealed a number of critical previously undiscovered bugs. \'a9 2017 Andrew Case, Arghya Kusum Das, Seung-Jong Park, J. (Ram) Ramanujam, Golden G. Richard III\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Fuzzing;  Incident response;  Malware;  Memory analysis;  Memory forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 587\
Waleed, J., Hasan, T.M., Abbas, T.\
56380595300;54782466800;36805595000;\
Comprehensive expansion in Anti-Forensics Techniques (AFTs) based compressed image\
(2017) 2017 Annual Conference on New Trends in Information and Communications Technology Applications, NTICT 2017, art. no. 7976108, pp. 156-161. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85027548151&doi=10.1109%2fNTICT.2017.7976108&partnerID=40&md5=1a40829da897bd9e558eb150a575d429\
\
DOI: 10.1109/NTICT.2017.7976108\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, College of Science, University of Diyala, Iraq; \
Department of Computer Science, College of Science, Almustanseriah University, Baghdad, Iraq\
ABSTRACT: Digital images have become an important tool of providing evidences for personal imageries; several Forensic techniques have been developed to preserve digital images from fraud. An attention should bring the researchers eyes on new techniques used currently in Anti-Forensics science progression and, to what extent the level of manipulation could sit beyond our expectation. On the other hand, Forensics Techniques have an extremely powerful advantage to stand against Anti-Forensics Techniques (AFTs), by determining the source and the authenticity of digital image's content, trace its processing history. Furthermore, by finding the location of forging and the coding fingerprints left by compressing process as an objective of this study. Recently, AFTs have gained a significant popularity to conceal the artifacts that left via compressed image. This paper provides blueprints of various AFTs based compressed image used to misguide forensics detectors. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-Forensics Techniques (AFTs);  Coding Fingerprints;  Compressed Image\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 588\
Tembe, A.U., Thombre, S.S.\
57195357038;57191842691;\
Survey of copy-paste forgery detection in digital image forensic\
(2017) IEEE International Conference on Innovative Mechanisms for Industry Applications, ICIMIA 2017 - Proceedings, art. no. 7975613, pp. 248-252. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85027443493&doi=10.1109%2fICIMIA.2017.7975613&partnerID=40&md5=37863f0cd6153d3f02fb0021b42b9e85\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICIMIA.2017.7975613\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, YCCE, Nagpur, India\
ABSTRACT: Nowadays image manipulation plays an important role due to the powerful photo editing software such as Picasa, Photoshop so that it looks like as original. Such tampering with the original digital image is called as image forgery. The detection of image forgery in an image is important so it can be used as legal evidence in investigations such as court and other fields. Many Images are used as genuine proof of any crime and this remains accurate then it will create a problem. Detecting these forgery types is faces problem at present. To find the forgeries in a digital image is the challenging task. Manipulation of an image is the common place with growing widely access to powerful computing graphics abilities. In this paper trying to implement copy-paste image forgery where copied one part from an image is pasted with another image. The finally result is shows the accuracy and efficiency of this technique for detecting copy-paste forgery with translation, scaling, rotation. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Copy-paste forgery;  Image Forensic;  Tamper detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 589\
Hausknecht, K., Gruicic, S.\
49561195100;56786518200;\
Anti-computer forensics\
(2017) 2017 40th International Convention on Information and Communication Technology, Electronics and Microelectronics, MIPRO 2017 - Proceedings, art. no. 7973612, pp. 1233-1240. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85027692772&doi=10.23919%2fMIPRO.2017.7973612&partnerID=40&md5=3db7aa63720eb5a4e4308dbd1f347545\
\
DOI: 10.23919/MIPRO.2017.7973612\
AFFILIATIONS: INsig2 D.o.o., Zagreb, Croatia\
ABSTRACT: Generally speaking, anti-computer forensics is a set of techniques used as countermeasures to digital forensic analysis. When put into information and data perspective, it is a practice of making it hard to understand or find. Typical example being when programming code is often encoded to protect intellectual property and prevent an attacker from reverse engineering a proprietary software program. \'a9 2017 Croatian Society MIPRO.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: antiforensics;  artefacts;  digital forensics;  information;  obfuscation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 590\
Agarwal, S., Farid, H.\
57200524642;7007029048;\
Photo forensics from JPEG dimples\
(2017) 2017 IEEE Workshop on Information Forensics and Security, WIFS 2017, 2018-January, pp. 1-6. Cited 21 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85049809498&doi=10.1109%2fWIFS.2017.8267641&partnerID=40&md5=8afef3813a38bdd65d5d26c55afcadd1\
\
DOI: 10.1109/WIFS.2017.8267641\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Dartmouth College, United States\
ABSTRACT: Previous forensic techniques have exploited various characteristics of JPEG compression to reveal traces of manipulation in digital images. We describe a JPEG artifact that can arise depending on the choice of the mathematical operator used to convert DCT coefficients from floating-point to integer values. We show that the more commonly used floor or ceiling operators (but not the round operator) introduce a periodic artifact in the form of a single darker or brighter pixel - which we term a dimple - in 8 \'d7 8 pixel blocks. We describe the nature of this artifact, its prevalence in commercial cameras, and how this artifact can be quantified and used to detect a wide range of digital manipulations from content-aware fill to re-sampling, airbrushing, and compositing. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Image forensics;  JPEG compression\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 591\
Mohlala, M., Ikuesan, A.R., Venter, H.S.\
57202237438;57200145399;7005841055;\
User attribution based on keystroke dynamics in digital forensic readiness process\
(2017) 2017 IEEE Conference on Applications, Information and Network Security, AINS 2017, 2018-January, pp. 124-129. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85047521272&doi=10.1109%2fAINS.2017.8270436&partnerID=40&md5=2afcf185ce486f44fbb23fd7468db071\
\
DOI: 10.1109/AINS.2017.8270436\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Computer Science, University of Pretoria, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: As the development of technology increases, the security risk also increases. This has affected most organizations, irrespective of size, as they depend on the increasingly pervasive technology to perform their daily tasks. However, the dependency on technology has introduced diverse security vulnerabilities in organizations which requires a reliable preparedness for probable forensic investigation of the unauthorized incident. Keystroke dynamics is one of the cost-effective methods for collecting potential digital evidence. This paper presents a keystroke pattern analysis technique suitable for the collection of complementary potential digital evidence for forensic readiness. The proposition introduced a technique that relies on the extraction of reliable behavioral signature from user activity. Experimental validation of the proposition demonstrates the effectiveness of proposition using a multi-scheme classifier. The overall goal is to have forensically sound and admissible keystroke evidence that could be presented during the forensic investigation to minimize the costs and time of the investigation. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: feature extraction;  forensic readiness;  keystroke dynamics;  pattern extraction;  user attribution\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 592\
Sablatura, J., Zhou, B.\
6507762445;55723448800;\
Forensic database reconstruction\
(2017) Proceedings - 2017 IEEE International Conference on Big Data, Big Data 2017, 2018-January, pp. 3700-3704. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85047840103&doi=10.1109%2fBigData.2017.8258366&partnerID=40&md5=a14bc28240a9b5a728d15984afa59193\
\
DOI: 10.1109/BigData.2017.8258366\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Sam Houston State University, Huntsville, TX  77341, United States\
ABSTRACT: The analysis of database artifacts can provide a wealth of information about a suspected database intrusion. A key part of this analysis is the ability to reconstruct the actions of the intruder in order to identify any data that was compromised or any modifications that took place. This research paper identifies some of the core concepts behind forensic reconstruction, and then provides a summary of current research efforts within forensic database reconstruction including the concept of the ideal log setting, a forensically aware database logging method, and the use of relational algebra and internal log structures for the reconstruction of databases. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Database Forensics;  Forensic Logging;  Log Preferences;  Reconstruction;  Relational Algebra\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 593\
Singh, R.D., Aggarwal, N.\
56488829400;36875216400;\
Optical Flow and Prediction Residual Based Hybrid Forensic System for Inter-Frame Tampering Detection\
(2017) Journal of Circuits, Systems and Computers, 26 (7), art. no. 1750107, . Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85015374244&doi=10.1142%2fS0218126617501079&partnerID=40&md5=f6600c5ed65f4baaad8b2b137e9815f8\
\
DOI: 10.1142/S0218126617501079\
AFFILIATIONS: University Institute of Engineering and Technology, Panjab University, Chandigarh, 160014, India\
ABSTRACT: In the wake of widespread proliferation of inexpensive and easy-to-use digital content editing software, digital videos have lost the idealized reputation they once held as universal, objective and infallible evidence of occurrence of events. The pliability of digital content and its innate vulnerability to unobtrusive alterations causes us to become skeptical of its validity. However, in spite of the fact that digital videos may not always present a truthful picture of reality, their usefulness in today's world is incontrovertible. Therefore, the need to verify the integrity and authenticity of the contents of a digital video becomes paramount, especially in critical scenarios such as defense planning and legal trials where reliance on untrustworthy evidence could have grievous ramifications. Inter-frame tampering, which involves insertion/removal/replication of sets of frames into/from/within a video sequence, is among the most un-convoluted and elusive video forgeries. In this paper, we propose a potent hybrid forensic system that detects inter-frame forgeries in compressed videos. The system encompasses two forensic techniques. The first is a novel optical flow analysis based frame-insertion and removal detection procedure, where we focus on the brightness gradient component of optical flow and detect irregularities caused therein by post-production frame-tampering. The second component is a prediction residual examination based scheme that expedites detection and localization of replicated frames in video sequences. Subjective and quantitative results of comprehensive tests on an elaborate dataset under diverse experimental set-ups substantiate the effectuality and robustness of the proposed system. \'a9 2017 World Scientific Publishing Company.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital video forensics;  frame-deletion;  frame-duplication;  frame-insertion;  frame-removal;  frame-replication;  inter-frame forgery detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 594 **SELECTED** SID: 32\
Eterovic-Soric, B., Choo, K.-K.R., Mubarak, S., Ashman, H.\
56770163900;57208540261;24825006800;6701726434;\
Windows 7 Antiforensics: A Review and a Novel Approach\
(2017) Journal of Forensic Sciences, 62 (4), pp. 1054-1070. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85011633130&doi=10.1111%2f1556-4029.13393&partnerID=40&md5=3c6a07d1b13219ef9caee6c8b974fda4\
\
DOI: 10.1111/1556-4029.13393\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information Technology & Mathematical Sciences, University of South Australia, Adelaide, SA  5095, Australia; \
Department of Information Systems and Cyber Security, The University of Texas at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX  78249-0631, United States\
ABSTRACT: In this paper, we review literature on antiforensics published between 2010 and 2016 and reveal the surprising lack of up-to-date research on this topic. This research aims to contribute to this knowledge gap by investigating different antiforensic techniques for devices running Windows 7, one of the most popular operating systems. An approach which allows for removal or obfuscation of most forensic evidence is then presented. Using the Trojan software DarkComet RAT as a case study, we demonstrate the utility of our approach and that a Trojan Horse infection may be a legitimate possibility, even if there is no evidence of an infection on a seized computer's hard drive. Up-to-date information regarding how forensic artifacts can be compromised will allow relevant stakeholders to make informed decisions when deciding the outcome of legal cases involving digital evidence. \'a9 2017 American Academy of Forensic Sciences\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: DarkComet RAT;  digital forensics;  forensic science;  Trojan Horse Defence;  Windows 7 antiforensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 595\
Mayer, O., Stamm, M.C.\
56694186600;34870520200;\
Countering anti-forensics of lateral chromatic aberration\
(2017) IH and MMSec 2017 - Proceedings of the 2017 ACM Workshop on Information Hiding and Multimedia Security, pp. 15-20. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85025598520&doi=10.1145%2f3082031.3083242&partnerID=40&md5=83ed80758af8a91dc81f363c174119c0\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3082031.3083242\
AFFILIATIONS: Drexel University, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Philadelphia, PA, United States\
ABSTRACT: Research has shown that lateral chromatic aberrations (LCA), an imaging fingerprint, can be anti-forensically modified to hide evidence of cut-and-paste forgery. In this paper, we propose a new technique for securing digital images against anti-forensic manipulation of LCA. To do this, we exploit resizing differences between color channels, which are induced by LCA anti-forensics, and define a feature vector to quantitatively capture these differences. Furthermore, we propose a detection method that exposes anti-forensically manipulated image patches. The technique algorithm is validated through experimental procedure, showing dependence on forgery patch size as well as anti-forensic scaling factor. \'a9 2017 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Image forgery detection;  Image splicing;  Lateral chromatic aberration;  Multimedia forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 596\
Wan, Q., Panetta, K., Agaian, S.\
57188747389;6507727793;35321805400;\
A video forensic technique for detecting frame integrity using human visual system-inspired measure\
(2017) 2017 IEEE International Symposium on Technologies for Homeland Security, HST 2017, art. no. 7943466, . Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85022199493&doi=10.1109%2fTHS.2017.7943466&partnerID=40&md5=db3520cc64912cfec5884d192a804161\
\
DOI: 10.1109/THS.2017.7943466\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Tufts University, Medford, MA, United States; \
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Texas at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, United States\
ABSTRACT: Digital videos have been widely used for security purposes; hence, a significant research effort has been devoted to develop video forensic technology. Forensic video analysis aims to solve two main problems: (1) finding evidence present in a video, and (2) authenticating the original video source. In this paper, we propose an automatic jump-cut detection system to evaluate video altering and tampering using a novel, low-cost and accurate video forensic technique using Human Visual System-inspired measure, which can detect alterations that the human eye may not be able to perceive. Our method is intended to qualify the integrity of digital video content. The experimental results demonstrate that our measurement is able to perform a reliable identification and authorization for digital video forensic applications. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digit videos;  Human Visual System-inspired measure;  Video forensic technique\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 597\
Odebade, A., Welsh, T., Mthunzi, S., Benkhelifa, E.\
57194706908;54994338700;57194699661;23388184900;\
Mitigating anti-forensics in the Cloud via resource-based privacy preserving activity attribution\
(2017) 2017 4th International Conference on Software Defined Systems, SDS 2017, art. no. 7939155, pp. 143-149. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85021741733&doi=10.1109%2fSDS.2017.7939155&partnerID=40&md5=1c753929feb6c43a781b0bc409587ff0\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SDS.2017.7939155\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Computing, Engineering and Sciences, Staffordshire University, Stoke-on-Trent, ST4 2DE, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: The multi-tenant Cloud environment creates a plethora of both technical and legal difficulties for digital forensics. Digital forensics typically relies on the analysis of evidence images or residual data. Due to the distributed nature of cloud environments can cause the required dataset to scale rapidly. When coupled with diversely heterogeneous environments, the widespread uptake of anti-forensic data and encryption, privacy requirements and a non-standardised architecture across Cloud Service Providers (CSPs), attribution of any activity for a forensic investigation becomes a tedious task. This paper presents an architecture agnostic, privacy-preserving solution to reducing the digital forensics target search space of a investigation within cloud and edge computing environments which will leverage standard metering and network logs for efficient activity attribution. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forenics;  cloud forensics;  resource correlation;  traffic analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 598\
James, J.I., Jang, Y.\
55430342500;57197783671;\
Inferring action instances with no prior knowledge in digital investigations\
(2017) Information (Japan), 20 (6), pp. 4153-4162. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85034774026&partnerID=40&md5=e802b33befc3242843f521c93c06aa30\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Legal Informatics and Forensic Science Institute, Hallym University, Chuncheon, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Prior works on digital investigations focus on the detection of known actions. Many methods, such as signatures, are used to describe a causal relation between a known action and the resulting traces. However, some knowledge of the occurrence of actions in a system may be determined if the particular action, and therefore specific traces, are unknown beforehand. This inference of unknown actions still uses the causal relation between an action and its resulting traces, but in a highly generic way. The inference is based on the a model that states for any object to exist in a system, some event must have caused the object to exist. If the object is observed and the object's associated meta-data has been updated beyond the creation time, some action must have updated the object. Based on these properties, two methods are proposed for generically determining action instances. \'a9 2017 International Information Institute.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Automatic event reconstruction;  Digital forensics;  Object grouping;  Time stamp analysis;  Trace clustering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 599\
Guo, H.-L., Zhang, R., Guo, L.-J., Jiang, B.-C.\
57171267300;57199381995;56456962000;57194701336;\
Preprocessing Method of Sensor Pattern Noise in Camera Source Detection of Photo Images\
(2017) Guangzi Xuebao/Acta Photonica Sinica, 46 (6), art. no. 0610003, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85026555296&doi=10.3788%2fgzxb20174606.0610003&partnerID=40&md5=30a55f28f4592691b0c3d564ff0636ab\
\
DOI: 10.3788/gzxb20174606.0610003\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Ningbo University, Ningbo, Zhejiang  315211, China\
ABSTRACT: The Sensor Pattern Noise (SPN) is easily contaminated by CFA interpolation noise and JPEG compression noise. These unwanted artifacts may result in false identifications in SPN-based source camera detection. A preprocessing method of SPN based on spatial smoothing was proposed in order to improve the accuracy of source camera detection. It is assumed that the SPN is a random signal similar to white Gaussian noise (WGN), and has a flat frequency spectrum similar to that of WGN in the frequency domain. Based on this assumption, WGN-guided filtering was used in the spatial domain in the proposed method. The spatial smoothing effect can suppress the unwanted artifacts of the SPN. At the same time, the SPN can maintain its own properties and possess similar characteristics with WGN. The proposed method was evaluated on our own database of camera images from cellphones. The experimental results show that the proposed method outperforms the existing preprocessing methods, the accuracy of the source camera detection being increased by more than 0.026 in terms of the Kappa statistical coefficients. The robustness to JPEG compression of the proposed method is also better than others. \'a9 2017, Science Press. All right reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital image forensics;  Sensor pattern noise;  Smoothing filter;  Source detection;  White Gaussian noise\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 600\
Rao, Q., Wang, J.\
57193615198;57193617886;\
Suppressing Random Artifacts in Reference Sensor Pattern Noise via Decorrelation\
(2017) IEEE Signal Processing Letters, 24 (6), art. no. 7875459, pp. 809-813. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85019235613&doi=10.1109%2fLSP.2017.2681426&partnerID=40&md5=e207e3c88e8c805686ba4c545ed06bb2\
\
DOI: 10.1109/LSP.2017.2681426\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electronic Engineering, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200433, China\
ABSTRACT: Photo response nonuniformity noise is a component of sensor pattern noise (SPN) of digital cameras. It characterizes the imaging devices of cameras and has been widely used in source camera identification (SCI). However, the reference SPN always be contaminated by unwanted nonunique artifacts. Previous works reported that these nonunique artifacts were periodic signals shared among cameras, which undergo the same or similar in-camera processing procedures. In this letter, we first illustrate that these nonunique artifacts, in addition to periodic signals, also contain random signals caused by the imperfection of SPN extraction method. To improve the quality of SPN and the performance of SCI, then we propose a scheme to suppress these random signals by decorrelation. In our proposed method, the reference SPN is modeled as a white Gaussian noise, while the random signals introduced by SPN extraction method are correlated noises, we suppress these correlated components to purify the SPN and enhance the performance of SCI. The experimental results on 'Dresden' database show that the proposed scheme achieves better receiver operating characteristic curves than the state-of-the-art methods. \'a9 1994-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Decorrelation;  digital forensics;  sensor pattern noise (SPN);  source camera identification (SCI)\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 601\
Chen, C., Ni, J., Shen, Z., Shi, Y.Q.\
55350220600;13106118300;56166501100;7404964736;\
Blind Forensics of Successive Geometric Transformations in Digital Images Using Spectral Method: Theory and Applications\
(2017) IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, 26 (6), art. no. 7879296, pp. 2811-2824. Cited 28 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85018774735&doi=10.1109%2fTIP.2017.2682963&partnerID=40&md5=4ad63e1acb0cc835b304b5eef34b2ee9\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIP.2017.2682963\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information Science and Technology, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangdong, 510006, China; \
Xinhua College of Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangdong, 510520, China; \
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark, NJ  07102, United States\
ABSTRACT: Geometric transformations, such as resizing and rotation, are almost always needed when two or more images are spliced together to create convincing image forgeries. In recent years, researchers have developed many digital forensic techniques to identify these operations. Most previous works in this area focus on the analysis of images that have undergone single geometric transformations, e.g., resizing or rotation. In several recent works, researchers have addressed yet another practical and realistic situation: successive geometric transformations, e.g., repeated resizing, resizing-rotation, rotation-resizing, and repeated rotation. We will also concentrate on this topic in this paper. Specifically, we present an in-depth analysis in the frequency domain of the second-order statistics of the geometrically transformed images. We give an exact formulation of how the parameters of the first and second geometric transformations influence the appearance of periodic artifacts. The expected positions of characteristic resampling peaks are analytically derived. The theory developed here helps to address the gap left by previous works on this topic and is useful for image security and authentication, in particular, the forensics of geometric transformations in digital images. As an application of the developed theory, we present an effective method that allows one to distinguish between the aforementioned four different processing chains. The proposed method can further estimate all the geometric transformation parameters. This may provide useful clues for image forgery detection. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital image forensics;  geometric transformations;  image forgery detection;  interpolation detection;  resampling detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 602\
Caldelli, R., Becarelli, R., Amerini, I.\
6603103996;8645537400;27567536300;\
Image Origin Classification Based on Social Network Provenance\
(2017) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 12 (6), art. no. 7829345, pp. 1299-1308. Cited 42 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85015018678&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2017.2656842&partnerID=40&md5=1bd0406d07c81d4580380e4cee83116d\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2017.2656842\
AFFILIATIONS: National Interuniversity Consortium for Telecommunications, Parma, 43124, Italy; \
Media Integration and Communication Center, University of Florence50134, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Recognizing information about the origin of a digital image has been individuated as a crucial task to be tackled by the image forensic scientific community. Understanding something on the previous history of an image could be strategic to address any successive assessment to be made on it: knowing the kind of device used for acquisition or, better, the model of the camera could focus investigations in a specific direction. Sometimes just revealing that a determined post-processing, such as an interpolation or a filtering, has been performed on an image could be of fundamental importance to go back to its provenance. This paper locates in such a context and proposes an innovative method to inquire if an image derives from a social network and, in particular, try to distinguish from, which one has been downloaded. The technique is based on the assumption that each social network applies a peculiar and mostly unknown manipulation that, however, leaves some distinctive traces on the image; such traces can be extracted to feature every platform. By resorting at trained classifiers, the presented methodology is satisfactorily able to discern different social network origins. Experimental results carried out on diverse image datasets and in various operative conditions witness that such a distinction is possible. In addition, the proposed method is also able to go back to the original JPEG quality factor the image had before being uploaded on a social network. \'a9 2005-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Image classification;  JPEG;  provenance identification;  quality factor;  social networks\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 603\
Singh, R.D., Aggarwal, N.\
56488829400;36875216400;\
Detection of upscale-crop and splicing for digital video authentication\
(2017) Digital Investigation, 21, pp. 31-52. Cited 14 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85011631346&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2017.01.001&partnerID=40&md5=5d715a424c43690ecb1f3ce59643d6d6\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2017.01.001\
AFFILIATIONS: University Institute of Engineering and Technology, Panjab University, Chandigarh, 160014, India\
ABSTRACT: The eternal preoccupation with multimedia technology is the precursor of us becoming a civilization replete with astonishing miscellanea of digital audio-visual information. Not so long ago, this digital information (images and videos especially) savored the unique status of \'91definitive proof of occurrence of events\'92. However, given their susceptibility to malicious modifications, this status is rapidly depreciating. In sensitive areas like intelligence and surveillance, reliance on manipulated visual data could be detrimental. The disparity between the ever-growing importance of digital content and the suspicions regarding their vulnerability to alterations has made it necessary to determine whether or not the contents of a given digital image or video can be considered trustworthy. Digital videos are prone to several kinds of tamper attacks, but on a broad scale these can be categorized as either inter-frame forgeries, where the arrangement of frames in a video is manipulated, or intra-frame forgeries, where the contents of the individual frames are altered. Intra-frame forgeries are simply digital image forgeries performed on individual frames of the video. Upscale-crop and splicing are two intra-frame forgeries, both of which are performed via an image processing operation known as resampling. While the challenge of resampling detection in digital images has remained at the receiving end of much innovation over the past two decades, detection of resampling in digital videos has been regarded with little attention. With the intent of ameliorating this situation, in this paper, we propose a forensic system capable of validating the authenticity of digital videos by establishing if any of its frames or regions of frames have undergone post-production resampling. The system integrates the outcomes of pixel-correlation inspection and noise-inconsistency analysis; the operation of the system as a whole overcomes the limitations usually faced by these individual analyses. The proposed system has been extensively tested on a large dataset consisting of digital videos and images compressed using different codecs at different bit-rates and scaling factors, by varying noise and tampered region sizes. Empirical evidence gathered over this dataset suggests good efficacy of the system in different forensic scenarios. \'a9 2017 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital video forensics;  Forgery detection;  Noise inconsistency;  Pixel correlation;  Sensor pattern noise;  Surveillance video authentication\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 604\
Amato, F., Cozzolino, G., Mazzeo, A., Mazzocca, N.\
57208073345;7003415482;7004438897;7003768509;\
Correlation of digital evidences in forensic investigation through semantic technologies\
(2017) Proceedings - 31st IEEE International Conference on Advanced Information Networking and Applications Workshops, WAINA 2017, art. no. 7929762, pp. 668-673. Cited 12 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85021413711&doi=10.1109%2fWAINA.2017.4&partnerID=40&md5=f2c69414f1dd53cd288384ca434e7e71\
\
DOI: 10.1109/WAINA.2017.4\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Naples Federico II, Dep. of Ingegneria Elettrica e Tec. Informazione, Naples, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Due to the pervasiveness of digital technologies in all aspects of human lives, it is increasingly unlikely that a digital device is involved as goal, medium or simply 'witness' of a criminal event. Forensic investigations include recovery, analysis and presentation of information stored in digital devices and related to computer crimes. These activities often involve the adoption of a wide range of imaging and analysis tools and the application of different techniques on different devices, with the consequence that the reconstruction and presentation activities result complicated. This work presents a method, based on Semantic Web technologies, that helps digital investigators to correlate and present information acquired from forensic data, with the aim to get a more valuable reconstruction of events or actions in order to reach case conclusions. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 605\
Zhang, R., Wang, R.-D., Guo, L.-J., Jiang, B.-C.\
57199381995;7405340909;56456962000;57194701336;\
High-quality JPEG compression history detection for fake uncompressed images\
(2017) Journal of Electronic Imaging, 26 (3), art. no. 033028, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85021775884&doi=10.1117%2f1.JEI.26.3.033028&partnerID=40&md5=6aac460be3449a6ee19a04711b5511a9\
\
DOI: 10.1117/1.JEI.26.3.033028\
AFFILIATIONS: Ningbo University, Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Ningbo, China\
ABSTRACT: Authenticity is one of the most important evaluation factors of images for photography competitions or journalism. Unusual compression history of an image often implies the illicit intent of its author. Our work aims at distinguishing real uncompressed images from fake uncompressed images that are saved in uncompressed formats but have been previously compressed. To detect the potential image JPEG compression, we analyze the JPEG compression artifacts based on the tetrolet covering, which corresponds to the local image geometrical structure. Since the compression can alter the structure information, the tetrolet covering indexes may be changed if a compression is performed on the test image. Such changes can provide valuable clues about the image compression history. To be specific, the test image is first compressed with different quality factors to generate a set of temporary images. Then, the test image is compared with each temporary image block-by-block to investigate whether the tetrolet covering index of each 4\'d74 block is different between them. The percentages of the changed tetrolet covering indexes corresponding to the quality factors (from low to high) are computed and used to form the p-curve, the local minimum of which may indicate the potential compression. Our experimental results demonstrate the advantage of our method to detect JPEG compressions of high quality, even the highest quality factors such as 98, 99, or 100 of the standard JPEG compression, from uncompressed-format images. At the same time, our detection algorithm can accurately identify the corresponding compression quality factor. \'a9 2017 SPIE and IS&T.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Compression;  Compression history;  Digital image forensics;  Joint photographic experts group;  Tetrolet\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 606\
Yao, H., Wang, S., Zhang, X., Qin, C., Wang, J.\
52464719400;56048848700;56034166800;35732239100;57219116697;\
Detecting Image Splicing Based on Noise Level Inconsistency\
(2017) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 76 (10), pp. 12457-12479. Cited 42 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85019709837&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-016-3660-3&partnerID=40&md5=9b1b89e54e2c07ccc641e045953931e1\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-016-3660-3\
AFFILIATIONS: Shanghai Key Lab of Modern Optical System, and Engineering Research Center of Optical Instrument and System, Ministry of Education, University of Shanghai for Science and Technology, Shanghai, 200093, China; \
School of Communication and Information Engineering, Shanghai University, Shanghai, 200444, China; \
School of Computer and Software, Nanjing University of Information Science and Technology, Nanjing, 210044, China\
ABSTRACT: In a spliced image, areas from different origins contain different noise features, which may be exploited as evidence for forgery detection. In this paper, we propose a noise level evaluation method for digital photos, and use the method to detect image splicing. Unlike most noise-based forensic techniques in which an AWGN model is assumed, the noise distribution used in the present work is intensity-dependent. This model can be described with a noise level function (NLF) that better fits the actual noise characteristics. NLF reveals variation in the standard deviation of noise with respect to image intensity. In contrast to denoising problems, noise in forensic applications is generally weak and content-related, and estimation of noise characteristics must be done in small areas. By exploring the relationship between NLF and the camera response function (CRF), we fit the NLF curve under the CRF constraints. We then formulate a Bayesian maximum a posteriori (MAP) framework to optimize the NLF estimation, and develop a method for image splicing detection according to noise level inconsistency in image blocks taking from different origins. Experimental results are presented to show effectiveness of the proposed method. \'a9 2016, Springer Science+Business Media New York.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Bayesian maximum a posteriori (MAP);  Digital image forensics;  Image splicing detection;  Noise level function (NLF)\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 607\
Aderibigbe, T., Chi, H.\
57194652201;8888500200;\
Implement hands-on labs for file integrity via open sources\
(2017) Proceedings of the SouthEast Conference, ACMSE 2017, pp. 265-267. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85021410013&doi=10.1145%2f3077286.3077317&partnerID=40&md5=19f1dc335018e4b0b401132bbc553fe9\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3077286.3077317\
AFFILIATIONS: Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University, Department of Computer and Information Sciences, Technical Building A, Tallahassee, FL  32307-5100, United States\
ABSTRACT: File integrity can compromise, usually referred to as the file becomes corrupted. File integrity is a critical part for data acquisition for digital forensics. This step makes sure that digital evidence is admissible at court and can use as sound evidences. There are few papers provide information for designing this type of hands-on labs. We close this gap in this paper and provide how we create this module for our applied cyber security course. In this poster, we discuss how to design and implement modules integrating into security courses. We are focusing on how to integrate those modules into our cyber security courses. In addition, case studies and hands-on labs will demonstrate in our teaching practice.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  File integrity;  File verification;  Hash values;  MD5;  Open source\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 608\
Jusas, V., Birvinskas, D., Gahramanov, E.\
15127341300;50860964700;57194089900;\
Methods and tools of digital triage in forensic context: Survey and future directions\
(2017) Symmetry, 9 (4), art. no. 49, . Cited 17 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85018693293&doi=10.3390%2fsym9040049&partnerID=40&md5=11f8a575be5f24cbc1abf543320bd89f\
\
DOI: 10.3390/sym9040049\
AFFILIATIONS: Software Engineering Department, Kaunas University of Technology, Studentu St. 50, Kaunas, LT-51368, Lithuania; \
Computer Department, Kaunas University of Technology, Studentu St. 50, Kaunas, LT-51368, Lithuania\
ABSTRACT: Digital triage is the first investigative step of the forensic examination. The digital triage comes in two forms, live triage and post-mortem triage. The primary goal of the live triage is a rapid extraction of an intelligence from the potential sources. The live triage raises legitimate concerns. The post-mortem triage is conducted in the laboratory and its main goal is ranking of the seized devices for the possible existence of the relevant evidence. The digital triage has the potential to quickly identify items that are likely to contain the evidential data. Therefore, it is a solution to the problem of case backlogs. However, existing methods and tools of the digital triage have limitations, especially, in the forensic context. Nevertheless, we have no better solution for the time being. In this paper, we critically review published research works and the proposed solutions for digital triage. The review is divided into four sections as follows: live triage, post-mortem triage, mobile device triage, and triage tools. We conclude that many challenges are awaiting for the developers in creating methods and tools of digital triage in order to keep pace with the development of new technologies. \'a9 2017 by the authors.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensic;  Digital triage;  Live triage;  Post-mortem triage;  Triage tools\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 609\
Sabillon, R., Serra-Ruiz, J., Cavaller, V., Cano, J.J.\
57192314774;36085074300;34874433000;57209532296;\
Digital forensic analysis of cybercrimes: Best practices and methodologies\
(2017) International Journal of Information Security and Privacy, 11 (2), pp. 25-37. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85014712834&doi=10.4018%2fIJISP.2017040103&partnerID=40&md5=852e42181388806974abd3399826d1f7\
\
DOI: 10.4018/IJISP.2017040103\
AFFILIATIONS: Universitat Oberta de Catalunya, Barcelona, Spain; \
Universidad de Los Andes, Bogota, Colombia\
ABSTRACT: This paper reviews the existing methodologies and best practices for digital investigations phases like collecting, evaluating and preserving digital forensic evidence and chain of custody of cybercrimes. Cybercriminals are adopting new strategies to launch cyberattacks within modified and ever changing digital ecosystems, this article proposes that digital investigations must continually readapt to tackle cybercrimes and prosecute cybercriminals, working in international collaboration networks, sharing prevention knowledge and lessons learned. The authors also introduce a compact cyber forensics model for diverse technological ecosystems called Cyber Forensics Model in Digital Ecosystems (CFMDE). Transferring the knowledge, international collaboration, best practices and adopting new digital forensic tools, methodologies and techniques will be hereinafter paramount to obtain digital evidence, enforce organizational cybersecurity policies, mitigate security threats, fight anti-forensics practices and indict cybercriminals. The global Digital Forensics community ought to constantly update current practices to deal with cybercriminality and foreseeing how to prepare to new technological environments where change is always constant. \'a9 2017, IGI Global.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cybercrime;  Digital Evidence;  Digital Forensic Methodologies;  Digital Forensic Procedures;  Digital Investigations\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 610\
Rahmat, R.F., Nicholas, F., Purnamawati, S., Sitompul, O.S.\
57193866659;57193864928;57193869465;46661988300;\
File Type Identification of File Fragments using Longest Common Subsequence (LCS)\
(2017) Journal of Physics: Conference Series, 801 (1), art. no. 012054, . Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85017215126&doi=10.1088%2f1742-6596%2f801%2f1%2f012054&partnerID=40&md5=fff675027ae03b83ba0eb00128172bc7\
\
DOI: 10.1088/1742-6596/801/1/012054\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Technology, Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, University of Sumatera Utara, Medan, Indonesia\
ABSTRACT: Computer forensic analyst is a person in charge of investigation and evidence tracking. In certain cases, the file needed to be presented as digital evidence was deleted. It is difficult to reconstruct the file, because it often lost its header and cannot be identified while being restored. Therefore, a method is required for identifying the file type of file fragments. In this research, we propose Longest Common Subsequences that consists of three steps, namely training, testing and validation, to identify the file type from file fragments. From all testing results we can conlude that our proposed method works well and achieves 92.91% of accuracy to identify the file type of file fragment for three data types. \'a9 Published under licence by IOP Publishing Ltd.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 611\
Saji, N.S., Rajan, R.\
57193863124;57193872843;\
Identification of source-enhanced composite images\
(2017) Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Emerging Technological Trends in Computing, Communications and Electrical Engineering, ICETT 2016, art. no. 7873666, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85017272842&doi=10.1109%2fICETT.2016.7873666&partnerID=40&md5=a2c098ffac5467586304de765b8fad75\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICETT.2016.7873666\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Electronics and Communication Engg., Amal Jyothi College of Engineering, Kanjirappally, Kerala, India\
ABSTRACT: Digital images have an important function in several fields like journalism, film industry and forensic investigations. Several image editing softwares can change the content of an image very easily. Attackers use contrast enhancement for avoiding the traces left by image forgery. So it is necessary to perform contrast enhancement detection for detecting an image forgery. In the proposed system, there are three algorithms that detect the global contrast enhancement, the type of contrast enhancement operation applied and local contrast enhancement in digital images. The global contrast enhancement is detected with the identification of zero-height gap bins present in the histogram. Then the type of contrast enhancement operation applied to each image is predicted using artificial neural network and support vector machine. Later on, for the detection of local contrast enhancement mappings, the positions of detected blockwise peak or gap bins are combined and for discovering the cut and paste image forgeries, the consistency between regional artifacts is checked. To verify the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed technique extensive experiments have verified. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: artificial neural network;  contrast enhancement;  Digital forensics;  image forgery;  support vector machines\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 612\
Binson, V.A., Thomas, N.M., Thoams, S., Augustine, A., Sivakumar, K.S.\
57193862993;57193226284;6504353052;56622633400;57193868988;\
An advance to cloning detection in digital forensics investigations\
(2017) Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Emerging Technological Trends in Computing, Communications and Electrical Engineering, ICETT 2016, art. no. 7873743, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85017250888&doi=10.1109%2fICETT.2016.7873743&partnerID=40&md5=b05d4d7666a7c873a5d147de83ca31cf\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICETT.2016.7873743\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept of Instrumentation, Saintgits College of Engineering, Kerala, India; \
Dept of Computer Science, COE Kalloppara, Kerala, India; \
Dept of Computer Science, Subharathi University, UP, India; \
Optimuz Technology, Palai, India; \
Dept of Instrumentation, NSS Palakkad, Kerala, India\
ABSTRACT: Digital images constitute a major part of data in many digital devices and become main information carriers in the digital era. In cyber-crimes the digital images are presented as court evidences. The authenticity of the digital images submitted as court evidence is a big question mark; since these pictures can been altered or modified. In this paper, an approach for Evidence Examination and Analysis in digital device forensics investigation platform is proposed. Here a method for cloning or copy-move forgery detection to be used in device forensic investigations is given. The suspected file obtained as court evidence is analyzed. Byte Frequency Analysis algorithm is used to validate the suspected file in PNG format. Fast Copy Move Forgery Detection algorithm is used for cloning detection. Finally, the detection result provides information that the digital image is altered or not. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: byte frequency analysis;  cloning forgery;  device forensics;  evidence examination and analysis;  Forgery detection;  lexicographical sort\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 613\
Zoubek, C., Sack, K.\
57148617400;57193677006;\
Selective deletion of non-relevant data\
(2017) Digital Investigation, 20, pp. S92-S98. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85015805868&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2017.01.006&partnerID=40&md5=f08c7895cf311cf38594f29cdf6cd116\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2017.01.006\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Technische Hochschule N\'fcrnberg Georg Simon Ohm, Nuremberg, Germany; \
Department of Computer Science, Friedrich Alexander Universit\'e4t Erlangen-N\'fcrnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany\
ABSTRACT: In crime investigation, especially in computer crime investigations, seizure and analysis of digital evidence is a de facto standard procedure. To prevent alterations on the original digital evidence a so called (bitwise) image is created. In this image all data contained on the digital evidence is stored, even non-relevant content or content with the risk of associated privacy violations. In countries with an elaborate protection of private personal or confidential data, this data has to be securely deleted from the image. Facing the rising request for a selective deleting functionality, common problems, limitations and requirements for a tool selectively deleting non-relevant data are outlined in this paper. For demonstration purposes, a prototype as a plugin for the Digital Forensics Framework (DFF) was implemented. The design of the implementation, some considerations as well as a comparison between a commercial tool and the evaluation of the implemented wiping strategy are presented. \'a9 2017 Christian Zoubek, Konstantin Sack\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensic;  Digital forensic;  Image;  Private personal data;  Selective deletion;  Wiping\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 614\
Freiling, F., Glanzmann, T., Reiser, H.P.\
13007598800;57193679041;14042466000;\
Characterizing loss of digital evidence due to abstraction layers\
(2017) Digital Investigation, 20, pp. S107-S115. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85015794420&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2017.01.012&partnerID=40&md5=8f51edae7b5774484911246c69e1480b\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2017.01.012\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Friedrich-Alexander-Universit\'e4t Erlangen-N\'fcrnberg (FAU), Martensstr. 3, Erlangen, 91058, Germany; \
Rathsberger Str. 28, Erlangen, 91054, Germany; \
Faculty of Computer Science and Mathematics, University of Passau, Innstra\'dfe 43, Passau, 94032, Germany\
ABSTRACT: We study the problem of evidence collection in environments where abstraction layers are used to organize data storage. Based on a formal model, the problem of evidence collection is defined as the task to reconstruct high-level from low-level storage. We investigate the conditions under which different levels of evidence collection can be performed and show that abstraction layers, in general, make it harder to acquire evidence. We illustrate our findings by describing several practical scenarios from file systems, memory management, and disk volume management. \'a9 2017 Felix Freiling, Thomas Glanzmann, Hans P. Reiser\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Abstraction layer;  File system;  Forensic analysis;  Virtual memory;  Virtualization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 615\
Scanlon, M., Du, X., Lillis, D.\
52264702800;57193685507;15044909900;\
EviPlant: An efficient digital forensic challenge creation, manipulation and distribution solution\
(2017) Digital Investigation, 20, pp. S29-S36. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85015743076&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2017.01.010&partnerID=40&md5=e166e36d9e80fc10ddd4311ef3648958\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2017.01.010\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science, University College Dublin, Ireland\
ABSTRACT: Education and training in digital forensics requires a variety of suitable challenge corpora containing realistic features including regular wear-and-tear, background noise, and the actual digital traces to be discovered during investigation. Typically, the creation of these challenges requires overly arduous effort on the part of the educator to ensure their viability. Once created, the challenge image needs to be stored and distributed to a class for practical training. This storage and distribution step requires significant time and resources and may not even be possible in an online/distance learning scenario due to the data sizes involved. As part of this paper, we introduce a more capable methodology and system as an alternative to current approaches. EviPlant is a system designed for the efficient creation, manipulation, storage and distribution of challenges for digital forensics education and training. The system relies on the initial distribution of base disk images, i.e., images containing solely base operating systems. In order to create challenges for students, educators can boot the base system, emulate the desired activity and perform a \'93diffing\'94 of resultant image and the base image. This diffing process extracts the modified artefacts and associated metadata and stores them in an \'93evidence package\'94. Evidence packages can be created for different personae, different wear-and-tear, different emulated crimes, etc., and multiple evidence packages can be distributed to students and integrated into the base images. A number of additional applications in digital forensic challenge creation for tool testing and validation, proficiency testing, and malware analysis are also discussed as a result of using EviPlant. \'a9 2017 Mark Scanlon, Xiaoyu Du, David Lillis\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensic challenges;  Digital forensics education;  Evidence injection;  Forensic corpora;  Tool testing and validation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 616\
Kamal, K.M.A., Alfadel, M., Munia, M.S.\
57193700911;57193697408;57193693178;\
Memory forensics tools: Comparing processing time and left artifacts on volatile memory\
(2017) IWCI 2016 - 2016 International Workshop on Computational Intelligence, art. no. 7860344, pp. 84-90. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85015834445&doi=10.1109%2fIWCI.2016.7860344&partnerID=40&md5=96311f06d99a9d47612e224f350dcbac\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IWCI.2016.7860344\
AFFILIATIONS: King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia; \
Ahsanullah University of Science and Technology, Dhaka, Bangladesh\
ABSTRACT: Digital investigation is becoming an increasing concern. Many digital forensic tools are being developed to deal with the challenge of investigating digital crimes. Acquisition of volatile memory is one of the vital steps of digital forensics process. Passwords data, indications of digital forensics methods, memory malware may be contained in volatile data which may overlooked by the investigator. The Success of memory acquisition mainly depends on the effectiveness of the memory acquisition tool. This paper compares memory forensics tools based on processing time and left artifacts on volatile memory. Furthermore, we examined how the processing time of the tools varies in terms of different volatile memory size. In order to conduct this work, we use the following tools: FTK Imager, Pro Discover, Nigilant32, Helix3(dd), OSForensics and Belkasoft RAM Capturer. The results show that Belkasoft RAM Capturer has the least amount of left artifacts, and it has also the lowest processing time. Moreover, this work concludes that tested tools are significantly different based on left artifacts on the volatile memory with 95% confidence level. Also, statistically, increasing the memory size \'d7 times does not increase the processing time x times of the tools. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: acquisition tools;  Forensics tools;  memory acquisition;  volatile memory\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 617\
Alghafli, K., Martin, T.\
36967843100;57042199800;\
Identification and recovery of video fragments for forensics file carving\
(2017) 2016 11th International Conference for Internet Technology and Secured Transactions, ICITST 2016, art. no. 7856710, pp. 267-272. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85016073773&doi=10.1109%2fICITST.2016.7856710&partnerID=40&md5=00d4f2c067485bc0161751bc6e9b92d8\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICITST.2016.7856710\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Khalifa University, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates; \
Department of Computing and Mathematics, Manchester Metropolitan University, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: In digital forensics, file carving of video files is an important process in the recovery of video evidence needed for many criminal cases. Traditional carving techniques recover video files based on their file structure. However, these techniques fail in cases where the file is split into several fragments, especially if some of the fragments were overwritten. In this paper, we present a method for identification and recovery process of video fragments if the video Codec specifications were overwritten. It consists of two parts which are detector and validators. The detector looks for sequences of bytes that could be video fragments in forensics image. The validator decides to accept or reject that a given fragment is a part of a video file. Based on the proposed method we implement a prototype which is called VidCarve. We have conducted several experiments to evaluate the proposed method with current video carving tools. Experimental results show that the discussed method can identify video fragments with high rates of precision and recall. The overall performance rate can produce forensically sound evidence and play a vital role in the process of recovery of digital evidence in many criminal cases. \'a9 2016 Infonomics Society.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: data recovery;  Digital forensics;  file carving;  fragment identification;  fragmented video files\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 618\
Mahmood, T., Nawaz, T., Mehmood, Z., Khan, Z., Shah, M., Ashraf, R.\
56081146500;15078397000;57190517865;57188803233;56499822800;56704783800;\
Forensic analysis of copy-move forgery in digital images using the stationary wavelets\
(2017) 2016 6th International Conference on Innovative Computing Technology, INTECH 2016, art. no. 7845040, pp. 578-583. Cited 13 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85015296506&doi=10.1109%2fINTECH.2016.7845040&partnerID=40&md5=b4de8912aa23899787b55b558f3c6975\
\
DOI: 10.1109/INTECH.2016.7845040\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Engineering, University of Engineering and Technology Taxila, Pakistan; \
Department of Software Engineering, University of Engineering and Technology Taxila, Pakistan; \
Department of Information Technology, Hazara University Mansehra, Pakistan\
ABSTRACT: In this modern life, the digital images are being considered the main source of information sharing. The digital images are being used in various fields such as medical imaging, news reporting, crime investigation, insurance claims etc. However, in the presence of sophisticated image editing tools, the credibility of digital images is the main concern. The copy-move forgery (CMF) is a most popular forgery attack. In CMF, a region is duplicated elsewhere in the same image for producing a forged image. Thus, for detecting this particular artifact an algorithm is presented that utilizes Stationary Wavelet Transform (SWT). The experimental results demonstrate that the algorithm is capable of detecting duplicated blocks precisely and identify multiple CMF effectively, even when the images are contaminated by blurring and noise. The performance of our algorithm in comparison with other systems proves the efficacy of the system with a noticeable increase in detection ratios. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Copy-move;  Credibility;  Digital image;  Forgery Detection;  Stationary Wavelet Transform\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 619\
Sadeghi, K., Banerjee, A., Sohankar, J., Gupta, S.K.S.\
57125808500;56438567300;57126375500;34975062800;\
Toward parametric security analysis of machine learning based cyber forensic biometric systems\
(2017) Proceedings - 2016 15th IEEE International Conference on Machine Learning and Applications, ICMLA 2016, art. no. 7838214, pp. 626-631. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85015427027&doi=10.1109%2fICMLA.2016.168&partnerID=40&md5=f6c4c0f97c42df0caa72c3120f6e7e04\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICMLA.2016.168\
AFFILIATIONS: iMPACT Lab, CIDSE, Arizona State University, United States\
ABSTRACT: Machine learning algorithms are widely used in cyber forensic biometric systems to analyze a subject's truthfulness in an interrogation. An analytical method (rather than experimental) to evaluate the security strength of these systems under potential cyber attacks is essential. In this paper, we formalize a theoretical method for analyzing the immunity of a machine learning based cyber forensic system against evidence tampering attack. We apply our theory on brain signal based forensic systems that use neural networks to classify responses from a subject. Attack simulation is run to validate our theoretical analysis results. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyber forensic;  Electroencephalogram;  Machine learning;  Security strength\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 620\
Tun, T., Price, B., Bandara, A., Yu, Y., Nuseibeh, B.\
25723830600;7201559499;14009565600;35236020500;12644975200;\
Verifiable limited disclosure: Reporting and handling digital evidence in police investigations\
(2017) Proceedings - 2016 IEEE 24th International Requirements Engineering Conference Workshops, REW 2016, art. no. 7815615, pp. 102-105. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85013040631&doi=10.1109%2fREW.2016.43&partnerID=40&md5=e72d1bfbd732db48658d985a2c517e9b\
\
DOI: 10.1109/REW.2016.43\
AFFILIATIONS: Open University, United Kingdom; \
Lero, Ireland\
ABSTRACT: Police investigations involving digital evidence tend to focus on forensic examination of storage units on personal electronic devices (laptops, smartphones, etc). However, a number of factors are making digital forensic tools increasingly ineffective: (i) storage capacities of electronic devices have increased, and so has the amount of personal information held on them, (ii) cyber crimes are increasingly committed on social media, and evidence of crimes are held on social media platforms, not necessarily on personal devices, (iii) there is a greater need for protecting digital privacy, especially when examining digital evidence from witnesses and victims of cyber crimes. These factors pose a number of practical challenges for both law enforcement agencies and citizens when disclosing and handling the digital evidence. This paper defines and illustrates the key challenges, and proposes the concept of verifiable limited disclosure, which defines a communication protocol to ensure privacy, continuity and integrity of digital evidence. More specifically, the protocol allows (i) citizens to decide what evidence to disclose to law enforcement agencies and (ii) any of the two parties to be able to prove any tampering of the disclosed evidence. The paper discusses methods for implementing the communication protocol using standard security and privacy tools and presents a pathway to evaluating their effectiveness. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyber Crimes;  Digital Forensic;  Digital Privacy;  Social Media\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 621 **SELECTED** SID: 33\
Rani, D.R., Kumari, G.G.\
56278752200;36872599300;\
A framework for detecting anti-forensics in cloud environment\
(2017) Proceeding - IEEE International Conference on Computing, Communication and Automation, ICCCA 2016, art. no. 7813913, pp. 1277-1280. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85011061679&doi=10.1109%2fCCAA.2016.7813913&partnerID=40&md5=7218eafd8c1d24dc9140b5a65da80b47\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CCAA.2016.7813913\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Science and Engineering, VFSTR University, Guntur, India; \
Computer Science and Information Systems, BITS Pilani - Hyderabad Campus, Hyderabad, India\
ABSTRACT: Cloud computing offers applications and infrastructure at low prices and opens the possibility of criminal cases. The increasing criminal cases in the cloud environment have made investigators to use latest investigative methods for forensic process. Similarly, the attackers discover new ways to hide the sources of evidence. This may hinder the investigation process and is called anti-forensics. Anti-forensic attack compromises the trust and availability of evidence. To defend such kind of attacks against forensic tools, anti-forensic techniques in cloud environment have to be researched exhaustively. This paper explores the anti-forensic techniques in the cloud environment and proposes a framework for detecting the anti-forensic attack against cloud forensic process. The framework provides an effective model for forensic investigation of anti-forensic attacks in cloud. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Cloud Computing;  Cloud Forensics;  Digital Forensics;  Investigation Process\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 622\
Raju, B.K.S.P.K., Geethakumari, G.\
55389708100;15768843300;\
An advanced forensic readiness model for the cloud environment\
(2017) Proceeding - IEEE International Conference on Computing, Communication and Automation, ICCCA 2016, art. no. 7813819, pp. 765-771. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85011024247&doi=10.1109%2fCCAA.2016.7813819&partnerID=40&md5=10a6abe0bf447389d33ec83e89fcb03a\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CCAA.2016.7813819\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Computer Science and Information Systems, BITS Pilani Hyderabad Campus, Hyderabad, 500078, India\
ABSTRACT: Cloud computing facilitates the consumption of virtually infinite resources with reduced cost and less maintenance overheads. But the implicit elasticity property of cloud can be misused by adversaries to perform some attacks-either using the cloud or to the cloud itself. An astute intruder will follow certain anti-forensic measures to delete the traces of an attack. In that situation, the evidence identification and collection from the cloud becomes difficult which in turn reduces the efficiency of the entire forensic investigation. To handle this, we propose a model called improved Cloud Forensic Readiness (iCFR). We discuss iCFR in detail along with its practical implications when applied to the cloud environment. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Botnets;  Cloud Computing;  Digital Forensics;  Readiness Models\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 623\
Akshatha, K.R., Anitha, H., Karunakar, A.K., Raghavendra, U., Shetty, D.\
57191953655;36833492800;23396973300;57193625897;57191960484;\
Source camera identification using noise residual\
(2017) 2016 IEEE International Conference on Recent Trends in Electronics, Information and Communication Technology, RTEICT 2016 - Proceedings, art. no. 7807997, pp. 1080-1084. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85015093268&doi=10.1109%2fRTEICT.2016.7807997&partnerID=40&md5=5847e86098a2aa887a7a771ed3553c4a\
\
DOI: 10.1109/RTEICT.2016.7807997\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Electronics and Communication Engineering, Manipal, India\
ABSTRACT: Source camera identification process plays a major role in digital image forensics, which identifies the source camera used for capturing the given image. The state-of-The-Art methods for source camera identification are mainly based on identifying the demosaicing artifacts, sensor noise based artifacts or by using image features from spatial/frequency domain. This paper proposes a novel feature based approach for source camera identification, by making use of the noise patterns present in the images, caused due to the individual source cameras. The scene contents present in the images are eliminated using Gaussian based denoising to estimate the noise patterns present in the images. Higher Order Wavelet Statistics (HOWS) are used as discriminative features and are used with support vector machine (SVM) classifiers to identify the originating source camera of the given image. The experiment has been carried out using the images captured from different cell phone cameras and the obtained results have proved the robustness of the proposed method. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital image forensics;  Higher order wavelet statistics;  Sensor noise;  Source camera identification;  Support vector machines;  Ten-fold cross validation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 624\
Amato, F., Cozzolino, G., Mazzocca, N.\
57208073345;7003415482;7003768509;\
Semantic integration and correlation of digital evidences in forensic investigations\
(2017) Lecture Notes on Data Engineering and Communications Technologies, 1, pp. 415-424. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85090372525&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-49109-7_39&partnerID=40&md5=520d8c1838cea17ab1e9fbd65ddbdc84\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-49109-7_39\
AFFILIATIONS: DIETI - Universit\'e0 degli Studi di Napoli \'93Federico II\'94, via Claudio 21, Naples, Italy\
ABSTRACT: The growing adoption of digital and computer-related technologies has led to the increase of computer crimes occurrences. Today we are exposed to a great number of threats that involve IT technologies, such as terrorism or cyber-scams through Internet, child pornography, espionage and tampering of computer equipment. Digital investigations play a leading role to guarantee a legal use of digital technologies, as well to search for evidences left by the author of a crime. Digital investigations often combine a wide span of skills and require the adoption of different tools and techniques in order to capture, store and analyze evidences from a Computer Crime Scene. The lack of integration and interoperability between these tools protract the analysis process and pauperize presentation results for non-technical parties (from legal, academic or business areas). This work presents a method, based on Semantic Web technologies, to integrate, correlate and query different sources of forensic data with the goal of more valuable reconstruction of a case. \'a9 Springer International Publishing AG 2017.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Child Pornography;  Domain Ontology;  Inference Engine;  Semantic Integration;  SPARQL Query\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 625\
DFRWS 2017 EU - Proceedings of the 4th Annual DFRWS Europe\
(2017) DFRWS 2017 EU - Proceedings of the 4th Annual DFRWS Europe, 105 p. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068711513&partnerID=40&md5=2a402675103e6d8fea0abd78b9f2c05e\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 12 papers. The topics discussed include: behavioral service graphs: a formal data-driven approach for prompt investigation of enterprise and internet-wide infections; bit-errors as a source of forensic information in NAND-flash memory; characterizing loss of digital evidence due to abstraction layers; evidence gathering for network security and forensics; EviPlant: an efficient digital forensic challenge creation, manipulation and distribution solution; force open: lightweight black box file repair; forensic analysis of deduplicated file systems; and improving the reliability of chip-off forensic analysis of NAND flash memory devices.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 626\
Freiling, F., Glanzmann, T., Reiser, H.P.\
13007598800;57193679041;14042466000;\
Characterizing loss of digital evidence due to abstraction layers\
(2017) DFRWS 2017 EU - Proceedings of the 4th Annual DFRWS Europe, pp. S107-S115. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068698724&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2017.01.012&partnerID=40&md5=0e857da9b006503df871c803e0c0b598\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2017.01.012\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Friedrich-Alexander-Universit\'e4t Erlangen-N\'fcrnberg (FAU), Martensstr. 3, Erlangen, 91058, Germany; \
Rathsberger Str. 28, Erlangen, 91054, Germany; \
Faculty of Computer Science and Mathematics, University of Passau, Innstra\'dfe 43, Passau, 94032, Germany\
ABSTRACT: We study the problem of evidence collection in environments where abstraction layers are used to organize data storage. Based on a formal model, the problem of evidence collection is defined as the task to reconstruct high-level from low-level storage. We investigate the conditions under which different levels of evidence collection can be performed and show that abstraction layers, in general, make it harder to acquire evidence. We illustrate our findings by describing several practical scenarios from file systems, memory management, and disk volume management. \'a9 2017 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Abstraction layer;  File system;  Forensic analysis;  Virtual memory;  Virtualization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 627\
Scanlon, M., Du, X., Lillis, D.\
52264702800;57193685507;15044909900;\
Eviplant: An efficient digital forensic challenge creation, manipulation and distribution solution\
(2017) DFRWS 2017 EU - Proceedings of the 4th Annual DFRWS Europe, pp. S29-S36. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068682969&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2017.01.010&partnerID=40&md5=3c0b15fca2e2a3efff1cc3401c4c298c\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2017.01.010\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science, University College Dublin, Ireland\
ABSTRACT: Education and training in digital forensics requires a variety of suitable challenge corpora containing realistic features including regular wear-and-tear, background noise, and the actual digital traces to be discovered during investigation. Typically, the creation of these challenges requires overly arduous effort on the part of the educator to ensure their viability. Once created, the challenge image needs to be stored and distributed to a class for practical training. This storage and distribution step requires significant time and resources and may not even be possible in an online/distance learning scenario due to the data sizes involved. As part of this paper, we introduce a more capable methodology and system as an alternative to current approaches. EviPlant is a system designed for the efficient creation, manipulation, storage and distribution of challenges for digital forensics education and training. The system relies on the initial distribution of base disk images, i.e., images containing solely base operating systems. In order to create challenges for students, educators can boot the base system, emulate the desired activity and perform a \'93diffing\'94 of resultant image and the base image. This diffing process extracts the modified artefacts and associated metadata and stores them in an \'93evidence package\'94. Evidence packages can be created for different personae, different wear-and-tear, different emulated crimes, etc., and multiple evidence packages can be distributed to students and integrated into the base images. A number of additional applications in digital forensic challenge creation for tool testing and validation, proficiency testing, and malware analysis are also discussed as a result of using EviPlant. \'a9 2017 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensic challenges;  Digital forensics education;  Evidence injection;  Forensic corpora;  Tool testing and validation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 628\
Zoubek, C., Sack, K.\
57148617400;57193677006;\
Selective deletion of non-relevant data\
(2017) DFRWS 2017 EU - Proceedings of the 4th Annual DFRWS Europe, pp. S92-S98. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068678830&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2017.01.006&partnerID=40&md5=a6c953503021a931e6d4d3c448e682af\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2017.01.006\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Technische Hochschule N\'fcrnberg Georg Simon Ohm, Nuremberg, Germany; \
Department of Computer Science, Friedrich Alexander Universit\'e4t Erlangen-N\'fcrnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany\
ABSTRACT: In crime investigation, especially in computer crime investigations, seizure and analysis of digital evidence is a de facto standard procedure. To prevent alterations on the original digital evidence a so called (bitwise) image is created. In this image all data contained on the digital evidence is stored, even non-relevant content or content with the risk of associated privacy violations. In countries with an elaborate protection of private personal or confidential data, this data has to be securely deleted from the image. Facing the rising request for a selective deleting functionality, common problems, limitations and requirements for a tool selectively deleting non-relevant data are outlined in this paper. For demonstration purposes, a prototype as a plugin for the Digital Forensics Framework (DFF) was implemented. The design of the implementation, some considerations as well as a comparison between a commercial tool and the evaluation of the implemented wiping strategy are presented. \'a9 2017 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensic;  Digital forensic;  Image;  Private personal data;  Selective deletion;  Wiping\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 629\
Case, A., Das, A.K., Park, S.-J., Ramanujam, J., Richard, G.G., III\
24491528600;56693483100;7501830301;7003414228;7102387624;\
Gaslight: A comprehensive fuzzing architecture for memory forensics frameworks\
(2017) DFRWS 2017 USA - Proceedings of the 17th Annual DFRWS USA, pp. S86-S93. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068655146&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2017.06.011&partnerID=40&md5=8fa6847174629b7aa824bd70516c046b\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2017.06.011\
AFFILIATIONS: Volatility Foundation, United States; \
Center for Computation and Technology, Louisiana State University, United States; \
School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Louisiana State University, United States\
ABSTRACT: Memory forensics is now a standard component of digital forensic investigations and incident response handling, since memory forensic techniques are quite effective in uncovering artifacts that might be missed by traditional storage forensics or live analysis techniques. Because of the crucial role that memory forensics plays in investigations and because of the increasing use of automation of memory forensics techniques, it is imperative that these tools be resilient to memory smear and deliberate tampering. Without robust algorithms, malware may go undetected, frameworks may crash when attempting to process memory samples, and automation of memory forensics techniques is difficult. In this paper we present Gaslight, a powerful and flexible fuzz-testing architecture for stress-testing both open and closed-source memory forensics frameworks. Gaslight automatically targets critical code paths that process memory samples and mutates samples in an efficient way to reveal implementation errors. In experiments we conducted against several popular memory forensics frameworks, Gaslight revealed a number of critical previously undiscovered bugs. \'a9 2017 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. on behalf of DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Fuzzing;  Incident response;  Malware;  Memory analysis;  Memory forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 630\
Ariffin, A., Choo, K.-K.R., Yunos, Z.\
55701508600;57208540261;36180385200;\
Forensic Readiness: A Case Study on Digital CCTV Systems Antiforensics\
(2017) Contemporary Digital Forensic Investigations of Cloud and Mobile Applications, pp. 147-162. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85054081779&doi=10.1016%2fB978-0-12-805303-4.00010-1&partnerID=40&md5=f8152f5bef27efee3f73424c29cedb06\
\
DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-12-805303-4.00010-1\
AFFILIATIONS: CyberSecurity Malaysia, Mines Resort City, Malaysia; \
University of Texas at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, United States; \
University of South Australia, Adelaide, SA, Australia; \
China University of Geosciences, China\
ABSTRACT: Digital closed-circuit television (CCTV) systems are deployed by government agencies, the private sector, and in private households for surveillance and to deter crime. These systems use digital video recorders (DVRs) to record events with timestamps on storage media and are capable of streaming the captured scenes to smartphones via mobile applications for mobile monitoring. With digital CCTV systems widely integrated into society, the role of digital forensics is more important than ever and the concept central to digital forensics is digital evidence. There are, however, challenges faced by digital forensic practitioners in acquiring the digital evidence from digital CCTV systems due to a range of reasons. These include damaged systems (intentionally or by accident, electronically or physically), and the use of antiforensic techniques by the suspect to obstruct the forensic data recovery of the multimedia evidence. In this book chapter we present an antiforensics framework for digital CCTV systems that allows permanent deletion of multimedia files based on selected timestamp, and an antiforensic prototype tool. Two DVRs of digital CCTV systems and an iPhone were used as case studies to demonstrate the utility of our framework and tool. Findings from this research provide digital forensic practitioners to have an in-depth understanding of residual evidence pertaining to the investigation of CCTV systems. This chapter also provides insights on the importance for manufacturers to include forensic readiness in the design of their digital CCTV systems. \'a9 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital CCTV antiforensics;  Forensic readiness;  IPhone encrypted image;  Timestamp;  Video stream\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 631\
Bozkurt, I., Bozkurt, M.H., Uluta\uc0\u351 , G.\
57203976256;57203974827;25652521200;\
A new video forgery detection approach based on forgery line\
(2017) Turkish Journal of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, 25 (6), pp. 4558-4574. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85053819464&doi=10.3906%2felk-1703-125&partnerID=40&md5=ebaaef012ba4f601925d9aa4c61ebcdb\
\
DOI: 10.3906/elk-1703-125\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Software Engineering, Of Faculty of Technology, Karadeniz Technical University, Trabzon, Turkey; \
Department of Computer Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Karadeniz Technical University, Trabzon, Turkey\
ABSTRACT: In recent years, we have continually encountered multimedia files in daily life, as evidence in courts, medical records in hospitals, etc. Many multimedia-editing software tools have been developed in parallel to the widespread usage of multimedia files. Thus, forgery operations can be committed by anyone with this software, even if s/he does not have any skill in this field. Authentication of the originality of multimedia files has recently become a popular topic. In this work, we propose a new video forgery detection approach to detect forged frames with better execution and detection capability. Features are extracted from the frames and their correlations are represented as a correlation image. This method investigates a line on the correlation image to determine the forgery operation. Then two new procedures (shrinking/expanding) are applied to the detected line to determine the exact location of the forgery. The experimental results indicate that the proposed method can detect forgery operations with better execution time and detection capability when compared to similar works in the literature. \'a9 TUBITAK\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Copy-move forgery;  Video forensic;  Video forgery detection;  Video processing\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 632\
Wagner, J., Rasin, A., Glavic, B., Heart, K., Furst, J., Bressan, L., Grier, J.\
56768652900;9738559600;24468209600;56543572900;7006869722;57195274460;45561300400;\
Carving database storage to detect and trace security breaches\
(2017) DFRWS 2017 USA - Proceedings of the 17th Annual DFRWS USA, pp. S127-S136. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85052368387&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2017.06.006&partnerID=40&md5=556449e8a4cafd1c03afac31682c02ed\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2017.06.006\
AFFILIATIONS: DePaul University, Chicago, IL, United States; \
Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago, IL, United States; \
Grier Forensics, United States\
ABSTRACT: Database Management Systems (DBMS) are routinely used to store and process sensitive enterprise data. However, it is not possible to secure data by relying on the access control and security mechanisms (e.g., audit logs) of such systems alone \uc0\u8210  users may abuse their privileges (no matter whether granted or gained illegally) or circumvent security mechanisms to maliciously alter and access data. Thus, in addition to taking preventive measures, the major goal of database security is to 1) detect breaches and 2) to gather evidence about attacks for devising counter measures. We present an approach that evaluates the integrity of a live database, identifying and reporting evidence for log tampering. Our approach is based on forensic analysis of database storage and detection of inconsistencies between database logs and physical storage state (disk and RAM). We apply our approach to multiple DBMS to demonstrate its effectiveness in discovering malicious operations and providing detailed information about the data that was illegally accessed/modified. \'a9 2017 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. on behalf of DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Database forensics;  File carving;  Memory analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 633\
Gupta, S., Mohan, N.\
56746446400;8371340800;\
Image tamper detection using energy deviation measure\
(2017) Journal of Artificial Intelligence, 10 (2), pp. 66-75. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85050858817&doi=10.3923%2fJAI.2017.66.75&partnerID=40&md5=7f55c6ff7e91fad0e9333aae0c2204b7\
\
DOI: 10.3923/JAI.2017.66.75\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Science and Engineering, Inder Kumar Gujral Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala, India\
ABSTRACT: Background and Objective: Digital imaging, image forgery and its forensics has become an emerging field for research now days. Digital imaging is used to enhance and restore images to make them more meaningful whereas image forgery produces tampered fake images. Digital forensics is required to examine the questioned images and classify them as authentic or tampered. This study aimed to introduce an image tamper detection method using statistical features extracted from Energy Deviation Measure. Materials and Methods: Energy Deviation Measure is a measure of Energy Deviation in pixel neighbourhood in tampered and recompressed images. It is extracted by measuring the inter pixel intensity difference across and inside the DCT block boundary. Features from Energy Deviation Measure have been used to classify the authentic and tampered images. Support Vector Machine is used for classification. Results: The experimental results have shown that the proposed method performs better with fewer dimensions as compared to other state of art methods. It gives improved accuracy and area under curve while classifying images and it is robust to noise and JPEG compression quality factor. Conclusion: The proposed Energy Deviation Measure captures the essential compression characteristics of an image and hence could be successfully utilized in classifying authentic and tampered images. \'a9 2017 Surbhi Gupta and Neeraj Mohan.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Compression artifacts;  Copy move forgery;  Energy deviation measure;  Image forensics;  Image splicing;  Image tampering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 634\
Vella, M., Cilia, R.\
16481565100;57202753386;\
Memory forensics of insecure android inter-app communications\
(2017) ICISSP 2017 - Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Information Systems Security and Privacy, 2017-January, pp. 481-486. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85049174650&doi=10.5220%2f0006215504810486&partnerID=40&md5=d30c569ad6d5ae5748c82b49a2e8648f\
\
DOI: 10.5220/0006215504810486\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, University of Malta, Msida, Malta\
ABSTRACT: Android is designed in a way to promote the implementation of user task flows among multiple applications inside mobile devices. Consequently, app permissions may be leaked to malicious apps without users noticing any compromise to their devices\'92 security. In this work we explore the possibility of detecting insecure inter-app communications inside memory dumps, with forensic analysis results indicating the possibility of doing so across the various layers of Android\'92s architecture. Yet, for the detailed evidence reconstruction that could be required during digital investigation, current capabilities have to be complemented with evidence collected through live forensics. We propose that this process should still be based on carving forensic artifacts directly from memory. Copyright \'a9 2017 by SCITEPRESS \'96 Science and Technology Publications, Lda. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android Memory Forensics;  Capability Leaks;  Mobile Systems Security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 635\
Prem, T., Selwin, V.P., Mohan, A.K.\
57201688058;57195487268;57195934643;\
Disk memory forensics: Analysis of memory forensics frameworks flow\
(2017) 2017 Innovations in Power and Advanced Computing Technologies, i-PACT 2017, 2017-January, pp. 1-7. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85045765150&doi=10.1109%2fIPACT.2017.8244977&partnerID=40&md5=318738da0e1985acd792a31b5306d49a\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IPACT.2017.8244977\
AFFILIATIONS: TIFAC-CORE in Cyber Security, Amrita School of Engineering, Coimbatore Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Amrita University, India\
ABSTRACT: We have heard of Cyber Espionage where a spy was able to hide data and go unnoticed virtually. Using some forensics frameworks we can able to hide and retrieve data in any format both in Windows and Linux operating systems. Whatever the data are made to be hidden in the disk, some frameworks are very good at its carving technique which it analyze and give all the parts of the disk or any other memory devices. In this paper I have clearly explained how memory forensics frameworks analyze the memory of the hard disk drives. Some specific utilities are capable and designed specifically only for windows Operating system and at the same way some forensics frameworks are designed specifically for Linux based distributions. Here I have analyzed few frameworks that are currently good in conducting a digital forensic investigation. These frameworks are for a human resources internal investigation where unauthorized investigation into the server, or to select frameworks to conduct new investigation and these frameworks and suits will assist to conduct analysis of memory forensic, forensic analysis of hard drive, forensic imaging, forensic image exploration, forensic imaging and mobile forensics. Such that, they all designed in such a way that it has the features to bring back in whole depth analyzed report of its merits in its technique flow and about what's under the system hood. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Digital Evidences;  Disk Forensics;  Documentation;  Frameworks;  Hidden data;  Investigation;  Offset;  Slack Space\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 636\
Balogun, A.M., Zuva, T.\
57195716210;23394115800;\
Overview of performance evaluation of keyword search utilities in forensic/E-discovery software\
(2017) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 10658 LNCS, pp. 826-836. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85040122704&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-72395-2_74&partnerID=40&md5=5b9c225d35ff59ee46aa3b2c76c7f962\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-72395-2_74\
AFFILIATIONS: Vaal University of Technology, Vanderbijlpark, 1911, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics has been modeled into a number of stages, which include examination and analysis. Keyword search is a popular tactic used by investigators during evidence examination and analysis. However, the belief that the success of forensic analysis depends on the examiner\'92s knowledge and experience has a strong hold in the digital forensic domain. It does imply the adequate awareness of the capabilities and limitations of the tools used by the examiner. Keyword search enables the examiner to quickly locate the existence of data items related to a case. This reduces investigation duration and eases the investigation process. This paper discusses the concepts of keyword search and the various keyword search techniques available. It highlights the algorithms on which they are based. In addition to the overview of, and argument for thorough understanding and evaluation of this technique in forensic utilities, this article also provides evaluation procedures to serve as direction for future evaluation/validation studies to ensure examiners know just how much to trust their software, as far as keyword searching is concerned. \'a9 Springer International Publishing AG 2017.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Digital evidence;  Electronic discovery;  Forensic software;  Keyword search\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 637\
Vidyadharan, D.S., Thampi, S.M.\
24825508600;46661916200;\
Detecting spliced face using texture analysis\
(2017) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 10658 LNCS, pp. 805-813. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85040101614&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-72395-2_72&partnerID=40&md5=edecdc8dc283f51903a576d6742192aa\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-72395-2_72\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Engineering-Trivandrum, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala  695016, India; \
LBS Centre for Science and Technology, University of Kerala, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala  695033, India; \
Indian Institute of Information Technology and Management-Kerala, Thiruvananthapuram, 695581, India\
ABSTRACT: Images are widely accepted as evidence of events despite the fact that images can be easily altered with adverse intentions. It is difficult to identify image alteration carried out by a skilled criminal. Digital forensics investigators need sophisticated tools to prove the legitimacy of digital images. The proposed work focuses on detecting altered digital images containing human facial regions. The work presents a method for detecting spliced face among a number of faces in an image. The proposed method makes use of the inconsistencies in the illuminant texture present in image pixels. For each facial region extracted from the image, a texture descriptor is extracted from its illumination representation followed by a comparison of all the texture descriptors to identify the spliced face. Experimental results show that the proposed method achieved better detection results than existing methods. \'a9 Springer International Publishing AG 2017.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Illumination inconsistency;  Image forgery localization;  Image splicing detection;  Local phase quantization;  Texture analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 638\
Li, J., Wu, G.\
56290438800;57197731527;\
Image recapture detection through residual-based local descriptors and machine learning\
(2017) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 10603 LNCS, pp. 653-660. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85034227874&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-68542-7_56&partnerID=40&md5=4963b32e4d93d8600f9bf81118067158\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-68542-7_56\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer and Software, Nanjing University of Information Science and Technology, Nanjing, 210044, China\
ABSTRACT: At present, the tamper evidence would be invalid in recaptured image in terms of most of the digital image forensics, so the authenticity of the image detection is a security threat. Since dense local descriptors and machine learning have been successfully applied in steganalysis and forgery detection, we propose a new image recapture detection method based on these two techniques. The local descriptors were recently proposed in the field steganalysis, and some descriptors are selected by greedy strategy in the experiments. Support vector machine and ensemble classifier are utilized as the classifier in the proposed method. The experimental results show that the proposed method achieves a good performance rate that exceeds 99.61% of recaptured images and 96.40% for single captured images on the open source database. \'a9 2017, Springer International Publishing AG.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Image forensics;  Image recapture detection;  Machine learning\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 639\
Oyelami, O., Olivier, M.\
57021494100;7101741068;\
Establishing findings in digital forensic examinations: A case study method\
(2017) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 511, pp. 3-21. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85029457737&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-67208-3_1&partnerID=40&md5=196a4c818078faf20549d0665e88ece7\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-67208-3_1\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: In digital forensics, examinations are carried out to explain events and demonstrate the root cause from a number of plausible causes. Yin\'92s approach to case study research offers a systematic process for investigating occurrences in their real-world contexts. The approach is well suited to examining isolated events and also addresses questions about causality and the reliability of findings. The techniques that make Yin\'92s approach suitable for research also apply to digital forensic examinations. The merits of case study research are highlighted in previous work that established the suitability of the case study research method for conducting digital forensic examinations. This research extends the previous work by demonstrating the practicality of Yin\'92s case study method in examining digital events. The research examines the relationship between digital evidence \'96 the effect \'96 and its plausible causes, and how patterns can be identified and applied to explain the events. Establishing these patterns supports the findings of a forensic examination. Analytic strategies and techniques inherent in Yin\'92s case study method are applied to identify and analyze patterns in order to establish the findings of a digital forensic examination. \'a9 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing 2017.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensic examinations;  Establishing findings;  Yin\'92s method\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 640 **SELECTED** SID: 34\
Hoelz, B., Maues, M.\
26430584800;57195636611;\
Anti-forensic threat modeling\
(2017) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 511, pp. 169-183. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85029456105&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-67208-3_10&partnerID=40&md5=20b70e68175d846f83dfdc46367c372a\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-67208-3_10\
AFFILIATIONS: National Institute of Criminalistics, Brazilian Federal Police, Brasilia, Brazil\
ABSTRACT: The role of a digital forensic professional is to collect and analyze digital evidence. However, anti-forensic techniques can reduce the availability or usefulness of the evidence. They threaten the digital forensic examination process and may compromise its conclusions. This chapter proposes the use of threat modeling to manage the risks associated with anti-forensic threats. Risk management is introduced in the early stages of the digital forensic process to assist a digital forensic professional in determining the resources to be invested in detecting and mitigating the risk. The proposed threat model complements the incident response and digital forensic processes by providing a means for assessing the impact and likelihood of anti-forensic threats, evaluating the cost of risk mitigation and selecting tools and techniques that can be used as countermeasures. This renders the digital forensic process more robust and less susceptible to the consequences of anti-forensic actions. \'a9 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing 2017.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Forensic examination;  Risk management;  Threat modeling\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 641 **SELECTED** SID: 35\
Pieterse, H., Olivier, M., van Heerden, R.\
55487079900;7101741068;6506752785;\
Evaluating the authenticity of smartphone evidence\
(2017) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 511, pp. 41-61. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85029452888&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-67208-3_3&partnerID=40&md5=eb62e9718363c951509d79bdd13334f7\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-67208-3_3\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: The widespread use and rich functionality of smartphones have made them valuable sources of digital evidence. Malicious individuals are becoming aware of the importance of digital evidence found on smartphones and may be interested in deploying anti-forensic techniques to alter evidence and thwart investigations. It is, therefore, important to establish the authenticity of smartphone evidence. This chapter focuses on digital evidence found on smartphones that has been created by smartphone applications and the techniques that can be used to establish the authenticity of the evidence. In order to establish the authenticity of the evidence, a better understanding of the normal or expected behavior of smartphone applications is required. This chapter introduces a new reference architecture for smartphone applications that models the components and the expected behavior of applications. Seven theories of normality are derived from the reference architecture that enable digital forensic professionals to evaluate the authenticity of smartphone evidence. An experiment conducted to examine the validity of the theories of normality indicates that the theories can assist forensic professionals in identifying authentic smartphone evidence. \'a9 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing 2017.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Authenticity;  Evidence;  Reference architecture;  Smartphone forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 642\
13th IFIP WG 11.9 International Conference on Digital Forensics, 2017\
(2017) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 511, pp. 1-303. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85029410489&partnerID=40&md5=1dc9262f81aa875e909d5ac44563ddf5\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 16 papers. The special focus in this conference is on Digital Forensics. The topics include: A model for digital evidence admissibility assessment; evaluating the authenticity of smartphone evidence; forensic evaluation of an amazon fire TV stick; detecting anomalous programmable logic controller events using machine learning; a forensic methodology for software-defined network switches; identifying evidence for cloud forensic analysis; digital forensic implications of collusion attacks on the lightning network; insider threat detection using time-series-based raw disk forensic analysis; anti-forensic threat modeling; a behavior-based approach for malware detection; categorizing mobile device malware based on system side-effects; semantic video carving using perceptual hashing and optical flow; detecting fraudulent bank checks; automated collection and correlation of file provenance information; using personal information in targeted grammar-based probabilistic password attacks.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 643\
Fang, W.\
57195559704;\
Research and implementation of key technologies of digital forensics based on cloud computing\
(2017) Boletin Tecnico/Technical Bulletin, 55 (6), pp. 572-579. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85028773003&partnerID=40&md5=1c83aabc7734bb06c8140d046c274c80\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Sino-India Computer Software Institute, Weifang University of Science and Technology, China\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics can find latent evidence from large information, which makes the evidence obtained from the work completed in legal and standardized conditions. In this paper, the author analyse the implementation of key technologies of digital forensics based on cloud computing. Through the introduction of cloud computing, forensics model can better solve the problem as storage and efficiency caused by growing data set. At the same time, the distributed computing framework provides a better solution for the analysis of forensic datasets.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud computing;  Data security;  Digital forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 644\
Kalbitz, M., Scheidat, T., Y\'fcksel, B., Vielhauer, C.\
57189089456;13103898200;57195494864;6602138719;\
Towards automated forensic pen ink verification by spectral analysis\
(2017) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 10431 LNCS, pp. 18-30. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85028471765&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-64185-0_2&partnerID=40&md5=b11f06124412170eeab42cf97f538f63\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-64185-0_2\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Informatics and Media, University of Applied Sciences Brandenburg, Magdeburger Str. 50, Brandenburg an der Havel, 14770, Germany; \
Faculty of Computer Science, Otto-von-Guericke-University Magdeburg, Universit\'e4tsplatz 2, Magdeburg, 39106, Germany\
ABSTRACT: Handwriting analysis plays an important role in crime scene forensics. Tasks of handwriting examination experts are for example identification of the originator of a given document, decision whether a signature is genuine or not, or to find strokes added to an existing writing in hindsight. In this paper we introduce the application of an UV\'96VIS\'96NIR spectroscope to digitize the reflection behavior of handwriting traces in the wavelength range from 163nm to 844nm (from ultraviolet over visible to near infrared). Further we suggest a method to distinguish ink of different pens from each other. The test set is build by 36 pens (nine different types in four colors each). From the individual strokes feature vectors are extracted which allows for a balanced classification accuracy of 96.12% using L1-norm and 95.26% for L2-norm. \'a9 Springer International Publishing AG 2017.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Handwriting forensics;  Ink determination;  Spectral analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 645\
Xu, Q., Sun, T., Jiang, X., Dong, Y.\
57195494564;23471450500;13607511800;7403385984;\
HEVC double compression detection based on SN-PUPM feature\
(2017) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 10431 LNCS, pp. 3-17. Cited 14 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85028467720&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-64185-0_1&partnerID=40&md5=3ce416b08b1b00f084442a7860fe3323\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-64185-0_1\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electronic Information and Electronic Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China; \
National Engineering Lab on Information Content Analysis Techniques, GT036001, Shanghai, China\
ABSTRACT: During the process of video forgery detection, double compression is a significant evidence. A novel scheme based on the Sequence of Number of Prediction Unit of its Prediction Mode (SN-PUPM) is proposed to conduct double compression detection on videos under HEVC standard, together with estimation on GOP structures. Number of PU with three kinds of prediction mode (INTRA, INTER and SKIP) is firstly extracted from each frame inside a given video sequence. Then the SN-PUPM is calculated by Absolute Difference Values from adjacent three frames in original extracted features and filtered with Twice Averaging Filter to reduce noises induced by the process. Then, an initiative Abnormal Value Classifier is trained with SVM to label I-P frames and have a final sequence for double compression detection and GOP analysis. Nineteen original YUV sequences are adopted for dataset in experiments. Results have demonstrated better performance in HEVC double compression than previous method adapted to HEVC. \'a9 Springer International Publishing AG 2017.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Double compression;  First GOP detection;  HEVC;  Prediction mode;  Sequence of number of PU of PM\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 646\
Ye, J., Shi, Y.-Q.\
35110226100;7404964736;\
A hybrid feature model for seam carving detection\
(2017) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 10431 LNCS, pp. 77-89. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85028464730&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-64185-0_7&partnerID=40&md5=b3409e90a99dd6df9a1b23faf2fd46a8\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-64185-0_7\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark, NJ  07102, United States\
ABSTRACT: Seam carving, as a content-aware image resizing algorithm, is widely used nowadays. In this paper, an advanced hybrid feature model is presented to reveal the trace of seam carving, especially seam carving at a low carving rate, applied to uncompressed digital images. Two groups of features are designed to capture energy variation and pixel variation caused by seam carving, respectively. As indicated by the experimental works, the state-of-the-art performance on detecting 5% and 10% carving rate cases has been improved from 81.13% and 90.26% to 85.75% and 94.87%, respectively. \'a9 Springer International Publishing AG 2017.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Image forensics;  Local derivative pattern;  Markov transition probability;  Seam carving detection;  Support vector machine\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 647\
Satrya, G.B., Nasrullah, A.A., Shin, S.Y.\
55547629700;57195074297;8983941500;\
Identifying artefact on Microsoft OneDrive client to support Android forensics\
(2017) International Journal of Electronic Security and Digital Forensics, 9 (3), pp. 269-291. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85025167357&doi=10.1504%2fIJESDF.2017.085192&partnerID=40&md5=4d1b467f650fc694e97cd8f0a715977f\
\
DOI: 10.1504/IJESDF.2017.085192\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of IT Convergence Engineering, Kumoh National Institute of Technology, Gumi, Gyeongbuk, 39177, South Korea; \
Forensics and Security Laboratory, Telkom University, Bandung, West Java, 40257, Indonesia\
ABSTRACT: Microsoft software is perhaps the most widely used around the world. As computing technology has evolved they have been at the cutting edge and have developed a number of groundbreaking and useful applications. Microsoft OneDrive is one such application. OneDrive is a cloud storage service offering 7 GB free storage to users. This technology can be misused and through it laws governing the cyber world violated. Current solutions to this are to perform digital forensics when cybercrime has occurred. This research used two different vendors of Android smartphones as experimentation objects. A model has been developed in this research, which provides instructions for digital mobile forensics analysis in finding artefacts related to the client's activities on OneDrive cloud storage application. These artefacts can be used as digital evidence by digital forensics investigators and the research increases the knowledge of cyber law practitioners. \'a9 2017 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android forensics;  Artefacts;  Cloud storage;  Cybercrime;  Digital forensics;  Onedrive analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 648\
Montasari, R.\
56939033500;\
A standardised data acquisition process model for digital forensic investigations\
(2017) International Journal of Information and Computer Security, 9 (3), pp. 229-249. Cited 13 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85024891152&doi=10.1504%2fIJICS.2017.085139&partnerID=40&md5=2f59c0be2ddcdc006969749c25eccb5b\
\
DOI: 10.1504/IJICS.2017.085139\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computing and Mathematics, University of Derby, Kedleston Road, Derby, DE22 1GB, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Similar to traditional evidence, courts of law do not assume that digital evidence is reliable if there is no evidence of some empirical testing regarding the theories and techniques pertaining to its production. Courts take a careful notice of the way in which digital evidence has been acquired and stored. In contrast with traditional crimes for which there are well-established standards and procedures upon which courts can rely, there are no formal procedures or models for digital data acquisition to which courts of law can refer. A standardised data acquisition process model is needed to enable digital forensic investigators to follow a uniform approach, and to assist courts of law in determining the reliability of digital evidence presented to them. This paper proposes a model that is standardised in that it can enable digital forensic investigators in following a uniform approach, and that is generic in that it can be applied in both law enforcement and corporate investigations. To carry out the research presented in the paper, the design science research process (DSRP) methodology proposed by Peffers et al. (2006) has been followed. Copyright \'a9 2017 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Data acquisition;  Digital forensics;  Digital investigations;  Formal process;  Process model;  Standardised model\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 649 **SELECTED** SID: 36 **UNAVAILABLE**\
Hassan, N.A., Hijazi, R.\
57194535357;57194538830;\
Data hiding techniques in Windows OS: A Practical approach to investigation and defense\
(2017) Data Hiding Techniques in Windows OS: A Practical Approach to Investigation and Defense, pp. 1-307. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85020669805&partnerID=40&md5=2121f651274166b92d0efbd8e82d4119\
\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Greenwich, United Kingdom; \
University of Liverpool, United Kingdom; \
MERICLER Inc., Candela Drive, Mississauga, ON, Canada\
ABSTRACT: "This unique book delves down into the capabilities of hiding and obscuring data object within the Windows Operating System. However, one of the most noticeable and credible features of this publication is, it takes the reader from the very basics and background of data hiding techniques, and run's on the reading-road to arrive at some of the more complex methodologies employed for concealing data object from the human eye and/or the investigation. As a practitioner in the Digital Age, I can see this book siting on the shelves of Cyber Security Professionals, and those working in the world of Digital Forensics - it is a recommended read, and is in my opinion a very valuable asset to those who are interested in the landscape of unknown unknowns. This is a book which may well help to discover more about that which is not in immediate view of the onlooker, and open up the mind to expand its imagination beyond its accepted limitations of known knowns." - John Walker, CSIRT/SOC/Cyber Threat Intelligence Specialist Featured in Digital Forensics Magazine, February 2017 In the digital world, the need to protect online communications increase as the technology behind it evolves. There are many techniques currently available to encrypt and secure our communication channels. Data hiding techniques can take data confidentiality to a new level as we can hide our secret messages in ordinary, honest-looking data files. Steganography is the science of hiding data. It has several categorizations, and each type has its own techniques in hiding. Steganography has played a vital role in secret communication during wars since the dawn of history. In recent days, few computer users successfully manage to exploit their Windows\'ae machine to conceal their private data. Businesses also have deep concerns about misusing data hiding techniques. Many employers are amazed at how easily their valuable information can get out of their company walls. In many legal cases a disgruntled employee would successfully steal company private data despite all security measures implemented using simple digital hiding techniques. Human right activists who live in countries controlled by oppressive regimes need ways to smuggle their online communications without attracting surveillance monitoring systems, continuously scan in/out internet traffic for interesting keywords and other artifacts. The same applies to journalists and whistleblowers all over the world. Computer forensic investigators, law enforcements officers, intelligence services and IT security professionals need a guide to tell them where criminals can conceal their data in Windows\'ae OS & multimedia files and how they can discover concealed data quickly and retrieve it in a forensic way. Data Hiding Techniques in Windows OS is a response to all these concerns. Data hiding topics are usually approached in most books using an academic method, with long math equations about how each hiding technique algorithm works behind the scene, and are usually targeted at people who work in the academic arenas. This book teaches professionals and end users alike how they can hide their data and discover the hidden ones using a variety of ways under the most commonly used operating system on earth, Windows\'ae. This is your hands-on guide to understand, detect and use today's most popular techniques in hiding and exploring hidden data under Windows\'ae machines, covering all Windows\'ae versions from XP till Windows\'ae 10. Starting with the Roman Emperor, Julius Caesar, and his simple cipher method to the surveillance programs deployed by NSA, to monitor communication and online traffic, this book will teach you everything you need to know to protect your digital data using steganographic & anonymity cryptographic techniques. Written in a simple style and requiring only basic knowledge of main Windows\'ae functions, techniques are presented in a way to easily implement them directly on your computer. A brief history of steganography since early inception to present day Simple methods to hide your data without using any third party tools, and different ways to investigate and explore hidden data Exploiting multimedia files to conceal data using text, image, video and audio steganography Exploiting Windows\'ae NTFS file system to hide your secret data A wide array of encryption techniques to protect your confidential data and securing your online communications Using cryptographic anonymity tools to conceal your identity online Explaining how hidden data could be used to plant a malware and launch sophisticated attacks against computer systems Methods to crack steganography and cryptography A chapter dedicated to anti-forensic techniques, detailing how to conceal data when using a Windows\'ae machine. \'a9 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 650\
Grigaliunas, S., Toldinas, J., Venckauskas, A.\
57194528217;25654423800;55061639500;\
An ontology-based transformation model for the digital forensics domain\
(2017) Elektronika ir Elektrotechnika, 23 (3), pp. 78-82. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85020531871&doi=10.5755%2fj01.eie.23.3.18337&partnerID=40&md5=5ad9d242de3aa8542815605d9915e588\
\
DOI: 10.5755/j01.eie.23.3.18337\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Kaunas University of Technology, Studentu St. 50-209, Kaunas, LT-51368, Lithuania\
ABSTRACT: The creation of an ontology makes it possible to form common information structures, to reuse knowledge, to make assumptions within a domain and to analyse every piece of knowledge. In this paper, we aim to create an ontologybased transformation model and a framework to develop an ontology-based transformation system in the digital forensics domain. We describe the architecture of the ontology-based transformation system and its components for assisting computer forensics experts in the appropriate selection of tools for digital evidence investigation. We consider the use of the attributes of Extensible Markup Language document transformation to map the computer forensics ontology and we use the representations in the National Institute of Standards and Technology's Computer Forensics Tool Catalog for aligning one form with the other.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer-aided software engineering;  Computers and information processing;  Digital forensics and software tools;  XML document transformation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 651\
Al-Saleh, M.I., Al-Shamaileh, M.J.\
36808911000;57194182962;\
Forensic artefacts associated with intentionally deleted user accounts\
(2017) International Journal of Electronic Security and Digital Forensics, 9 (2), pp. 167-179. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85019149703&doi=10.1504%2fIJESDF.2017.083992&partnerID=40&md5=aaef81b230159706acdb15a36342d3a0\
\
DOI: 10.1504/IJESDF.2017.083992\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Jordan University of Science and Technology, P.O. Box 3030, Irbid, 22110, Jordan\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics is an evolving discipline that looks for evidence in electronic devices. It is being utilised in investigating attacks and accusing cyber criminals. As in physical crimes, a cyber criminal might try every possible technique to hide responsibility about a crime. This can be done by manipulating all kinds of traces that could lead investigators to resolve cases. For example, a criminal can delete files, images, network traces, operating system log files, or browsing history. An easy procedure a criminal might follow to conceal crime activities are: 1) create a new user account; 2) commit a crime through the just-created account; 3) delete the account along with all files and directories that belong to it. To counter this kind of anti-forensic actions, this paper collects evidence from deleted user accounts. We seek artefacts in windows event logs, registry hives, RAM, Pagefile, and hard drive. Interestingly, this paper shows that several clues about deleted accounts can be harvested. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to tackle such a problem. \'a9 2017 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Deleted user account;  Digital forensics;  Memory artifacts\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 652 **SELECTED** SID: 37 **UNAVAILABLE**\
Jones, J.\
56434888100;\
Cyber deception via system manipulation\
(2017) Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Cyber Warfare and Security, ICCWS 2017, pp. 194-201. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85018979125&partnerID=40&md5=48fb5b26958588ded5f3cd27ae75a065\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, George Mason University, United States\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensic investigators, cyber defenders, and cyber incident responders draw conclusions from available evidence which often includes data from hard disks, volatile memory, and network traffic. However, these evidence sources are subject to manipulation. An adversary may effect a deception through the careful and integrated manipulation of one or more of these evidence sources. In this paper, we present techniques for manipulating the contents of disks, memory, and network traffic for the purposes of deception. We also discuss the results of a 2-day workshop in which cyber security operators learned and used these techniques to construct deceptions. Participants used a local virtual machine environment as a proxy for a cloud infrastructure, and used network traffic captures as a proxy for live network traffic. They established baseline images of mainstream Windows systems with no attack artifacts. They then accessed the memory and disks of the virtual machines from the host computer and manipulated the memory and disk contents using a hex editor. Similarly, they manipulated captured network traffic using the Scapy open source packet manipulation program. The manipulations were coordinated and based on past or hypothetical attacks or activity. Manipulations included placing known malware fragments on disk, malware process remnants in memory, and exploit fragments in network traffic. Even though no attack took place, antivirus scanners, network intrusion detection systems, disk forensics, and memory forensics tools all reported hits which together told the stories of specific attack scenarios. Virtual machine manipulation simulates a compromised or controlled cloud environment (for disk and memory access), and network traffic manipulation simulates network connectivity to an adversary or access to the communications stream. This work has both offensive applications, to effect deceptions, and defensive applications, to detect and respond to deceptions.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud;  Cyber deception;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Virtual machine\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 653\
Pandey, R.C., Singh, S.K., Shukla, K.K.\
57199423218;57214358898;7101987416;\
A passive forensic method for video: Exposing dynamic object removal and frame duplication in the digital video using sensor noise features\
(2017) Journal of Intelligent and Fuzzy Systems, 32 (5), pp. 3339-3353. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85018704936&doi=10.3233%2fJIFS-169275&partnerID=40&md5=eab9d67777f30a0196035b899a5498f3\
\
DOI: 10.3233/JIFS-169275\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology (BHU), Varanasi, 221005, India\
ABSTRACT: The purpose of this paper is to detect tampering in the video using passive forensic method. With the extensive availability of sophisticated video editing software and tools, it has become easy to forge the video using different tampering techniques. A well-known video tampering technique is to duplicate the frames or manipulate the contents of the frames to remove and hide the objects or person in a video. Video forensic is necessary because people tampered the video to get justice from court of law on the basis of video evidence, disgrace the important celebrity and to hide or expose some unwanted object. In this paper, we propose a passive forensic method to expose dynamic object removal and frames duplication by detecting the noise variance between original and tampered video frames. The proposed method exploits sensor noise features, extracted from each frame of the video using Discrete Wavelet Transform (DWT) and nonlinear thresholding such as Hard and Soft with Stein's Unbiased Risk Estimator (SURE) shrinkage. Gaussian Mixture Density (GMD) is used as Bayesian classifier and Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm set the parameters of the GMD. Implementation results demonstrate that we are getting commendable processing speed, accuracy 97.36-96.26, recall 99.80-98.94 and precision 97.34-87.95 respectively for object removal and frame duplication detection in comparison to existing methods. Proposed method successfully detect and localize forgery in the given video. \'a9 2017 - IOS Press and the authors. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Gaussian Mixture Density (GMD);  hard thresholding;  noise features;  Passive forensic;  soft thresholding;  SURE shrinkage;  video tampering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 654\
Meenakshi Sundaram, A., Nandini, C.\
36974321500;57217073863;\
ASRD: Algorithm for spliced region detection in digital image forensics\
(2017) Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, 575, pp. 87-95. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85018688214&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-57141-6_10&partnerID=40&md5=6da1ef59c826191fe8ec7e2ec77e7a90\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-57141-6_10\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computing and Information Technology, REVA University, Bangalore, India; \
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Dayanand Sagar Academy of Technology and Management, Bangalore, India\
ABSTRACT: Image splicing is one of the most frequently exercised in the area of image forgery that is quite challenging to be identified. After reviewing existing techniques towards identification of spliced region, it was found that existing techniques are either computationally expensive or do not address the cumulative problem. Hence, this paper, a novel and simple algorithm is presented called as ASRD i.e. Algorithm for Spliced Region Detection. A simple statistical-based approach is presented that perform partitioned blocks followed by detection of various artifacts among the neighbor blocks. The algorithm then implicates a classification condition for tampered and non-tampered region to truly identify the spliced region. With an aid of histogram analysis, true positive score, true negative score, accuracy and computational performance, the proposed algorithm was found to excel better performance in detection of spliced region. \'a9 Springer International Publishing AG 2017.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Accuracy;  Color filter array;  Image forensics;  Image splicing;  Localization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 655\
Ali, Z., Imran, M., Alsulaiman, M.\
36172858200;57200275504;26667487200;\
An Automatic Digital Audio Authentication/Forensics System\
(2017) IEEE Access, 5, art. no. 7864411, pp. 2994-3007. Cited 15 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85017584482&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2017.2672681&partnerID=40&md5=340e4a5b2af94160990555e725092cb9\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2017.2672681\
AFFILIATIONS: Digital Speech Processing Group, Department of Computer Engineering, College of Computer and Information Sciences, King Saud University, Riyadh, 12372, Saudi Arabia; \
College of Computer and Information Sciences, King Saud University, Riyadh, 12372, Saudi Arabia\
ABSTRACT: With the continuous rise in ingenious forgery, a wide range of digital audio authentication applications are emerging as a preventive and detective control in real-world circumstances, such as forged evidence, breach of copyright protection, and unauthorized data access. To investigate and verify, this paper presents a novel automatic authentication system that differentiates between the forged and original audio. The design philosophy of the proposed system is primarily based on three psychoacoustic principles of hearing, which are implemented to simulate the human sound perception system. Moreover, the proposed system is able to classify between the audio of different environments recorded with the same microphone. To authenticate the audio and environment classification, the computed features based on the psychoacoustic principles of hearing are dangled to the Gaussian mixture model to make automatic decisions. It is worth mentioning that the proposed system authenticates an unknown speaker irrespective of the audio content i.e., independent of narrator and text. To evaluate the performance of the proposed system, audios in multi-environments are forged in such a way that a human cannot recognize them. Subjective evaluation by three human evaluators is performed to verify the quality of the generated forged audio. The proposed system provides a classification accuracy of 99.2% \'b1 2.6. Furthermore, the obtained accuracy for the other scenarios, such as text-dependent and text-independent audio authentication, is 100% by using the proposed system. \'a9 2017 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: audio forensics;  Digital audio authentication;  forgery;  human psychoacoustic principles;  machine learning algorithm\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 656\
Jahankhani, H., Hosseinian-Far, A.\
55970576100;53979921000;\
Challenges of cloud forensics\
(2017) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 10131 LNCS, pp. 1-18. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85015876063&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-54380-2_1&partnerID=40&md5=4b3d5ad44bb5373cf186ad7c12abc8b7\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-54380-2_1\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Digital Technology and Computing, GSM London, London, United Kingdom; \
School of Computing, Creative Technologies and Engineering, Leeds Beckett University, Leeds, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Legal requirement for cloud forensics is currently uncertain and presents a challenge for the legal system. These challenges arises from the fact that cloud environment consists of distributed shared storages so there is a level of necessary interactions forensic examiners and law enforcement officers require from the cloud provider in order to conduct their investigations. Cloud computing has generated significant interest in both academia and industry, but it is still an evolving paradigm. Cloud computing services are also, a popular target for malicious activities; resulting to the exponential increase of cyber-attacks. Digital evidence is the evidence that is collected from the suspect\'92s workstations or electronic medium that could be used in order to assist computer forensics investigations. Cloud forensics involves digital evidence collection in the cloud environment. The current established forensic procedures and process models require major changes in order to be acceptable in cloud environment. This chapter aims to assess challenges that forensic examiners face in tracking down and using digital information stored in the cloud and discuss the importance of education and training to handle, manage and investigate computer evidence. \'a9 Springer International Publishing AG 2017.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Challenges of cloud forensics;  Cloud computing;  Cloud forensics;  Computer misuse act;  Cyber security strategy;  Digital evidence\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 657\
Yu, J., Zhan, Y., Yang, J., Kang, X.\
57189307879;57190012250;57193387035;7102354750;\
A multi-purpose image counter-anti-forensic method using convolutional neural networks\
(2017) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 10082 LNCS, pp. 3-15. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85013434372&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-53465-71&partnerID=40&md5=2567cca70785414065906eec4ae4d34e\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-53465-71\
AFFILIATIONS: Guangdong Key Lab of Information Security, School of Data and Computer Science, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China\
ABSTRACT: During the past decade, image forensics has made rapid progress due to the growing concern of image content authenticity. In order to remove or conceal the traces that forensics based on, some farsighted forgers take advantage of so-called anti-forensics to make their forgery more convincing. To rebuild the credibility of forensics, many countermeasures against anti-forensics have been proposed. This paper presents a multi-purpose approach to detect various anti-forensics based on the architecture of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), which can automatically extract features and identify the forged types. Our model can detect various image anti-forensics both in binary and multi-class decision effectively. Experimental results show that the proposed method performs well for multiple well-known image anti-forensic methods. \'a9 Springer International Publishing AG 2017.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Convolutional neural networks;  Counter anti-forensics;  Multi-purpose\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 658\
Iuliani, M., Fanfani, M., Colombo, C., Piva, A.\
56685528500;55439858000;7102900394;7005293392;\
Reliability assessment of principal point estimates for forensic applications\
(2017) Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation, 42, pp. 65-77. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84997701245&doi=10.1016%2fj.jvcir.2016.11.010&partnerID=40&md5=574f305ca6cff235cd76d46034fda0ee\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.jvcir.2016.11.010\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Mathematics and Computer Science, University of Florence, Firenze, Italy; \
Dept. of Information Engineering, University of Florence, Firenze, Italy; \
FORLAB Multimedia Forensics Laboratory, University of Florence, Prato, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Although quite recent as a forensic research domain, computer vision analysis of scenes is likely to become more and more important in the near future, thanks to its robustness to image alterations at the signal level, such as image compression and filtering. However, the experimental assessment of vision-based forensic algorithms is a particularly critical task, since they cannot be tested on massive amounts of data, and their performance can heavily depend on user skill. In this paper we investigate on the accuracy and reliability of a vision-based, user-supervised method for the estimation of the camera principal point, to be used in cropping and splicing detection. Results of an extensive experimental evaluation show how the estimation accuracy depends on perspective conditions as well as on the selected image features. Such evidence led us to define a novel visual feature, referred to as Minimum Vanishing Angle, which can be used to assess the reliability of the method. \'a9 2016 Elsevier Inc.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cropping detection;  Geometric constraints;  Image Forensics;  Minimum Vanishing Angle;  Scene level analysis;  Splicing detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 659\
Javadianasl, Y., Manaf, A., Zamani, M.\
56512340500;57191620495;56451265800;\
A practical procedure for collecting morevolatile information in live investigation of botnet attack\
(2017) Intelligent Systems Reference Library, 115, pp. 381-414. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84992160859&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-44270-9_17&partnerID=40&md5=f71e0f2bf9d8ad80bc4739b0c36b52d1\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-44270-9_17\
AFFILIATIONS: AIS, UTM, Jalan Semarak, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; \
Kean UniversityNJ, United States\
ABSTRACT: Nowadays because of the growth of internet usage in all over the world, users of this global service are faced with many different threats. Attackers are trying to improve their methods in order to penetrate the users\'92 machines to misuse their systems and their information. Most of the cyber-crimes are the result of one attack to a user or a network of many users. One of the important attacks in this area is Botnet which is controlling some compromised computers by an attacker remotely in terms of specific victim. This study tries to propose and implement a procedure in order to extract information and footprints of infected system with Botnet in order to reconstruct the Botnet attack and prepare a digital evidence package which shows the malicious activities and malicious files of this attack to present in a court. \'a9 Springer International Publishing AG 2017.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Attack;  Botnet;  Detection;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Investigation;  Live investigation;  Volatile information\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 660\
Song, S., Yao, H., Qin, C., Tian, Y.\
57194022646;52464719400;35732239100;56912611100;\
A forgery video detection algorithm for resolution promotion manipulations using frequency spectrum analysis\
(2016) ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, pp. 22-26. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85018345269&doi=10.1145%2f3033288.3033304&partnerID=40&md5=f35ffdad7ce80dd4f9395a03265e8dc5\
\
DOI: 10.1145/3033288.3033304\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Shanghai for Science and Technology, Shanghai, China\
ABSTRACT: Resolution is one of the important factors for video visual quality. With the development of the video editing software, one video sequence can be easily enlarged and inserted into another video sequence to generate a forgery video. The detection of video resolution modifications has become an important issue for digital video authentication. In this paper, we propose a passive detection algorithm based on the zero-crossings of the high-frequency component of the key frames in frequency domain. Firstly, the key frames of video are extracted before the second-order differential is executed. Then, the zero crossings of differential are calculated to generate a one-dimensional binary sequence. Finally, the frequency analysis is applied to expose the original resolution of the video for detection. Based on this method, we also develop a forgery detection method for sequence inserting. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method can accurately estimate the video original resolution, as well as detect the forgery traces of synthetic videos with maliciously inserted irrelevant video sequences. \'a9 2016 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital video forensics;  Spectrum analysis;  Video amplification;  Zero-crossing\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 661\
Domingues, P., Frade, M.\
13411315400;24468034000;\
Digital forensic artifacts of the cortana device search cache on windows 10 desktop\
(2016) Proceedings - 2016 11th International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security, ARES 2016, art. no. 7784591, pp. 338-344. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85015331865&doi=10.1109%2fARES.2016.44&partnerID=40&md5=fa4be2eb04da1e22c78557de69cfda3c\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ARES.2016.44\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Technology and Management, Polytechnic Institute of Leiria, Instituto de Telecomunica\'e7\'f5es, Portugal; \
School of Technology and Management, Polytechnic Institute of Leiria, Computer Science and Communication Research Centre (CIIC), Portugal\
ABSTRACT: Microsoft Windows 10 Desktop edition has brought some new features and updated other ones that are of special interest to digital forensics analysis. The search box available on the taskbar, next to the Windows start button is one of these novelties. Although the primary usage of this search box is to act as an interface to the intelligent personal digital assistant Cortana, in this paper, we study the digital forensic artifacts of the search box on machines when Cortana is explicitly disabled. Specifically, we locate, characterize and analyze the content and dynamics of the JSON-based files that are periodically generated by the Cortana device search cache system. Forensically important data from these JSON files include the number of times each installed application has been run, the date of the last execution and the content of the custom jump list of the applications. Since these data are collected per user and saved in a resilient text format, they can help in digital forensics, mostly in assisting the validation of other sources of information. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cortana;  Device search cache;  Digital forensics;  JSON;  Windows 10\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 662\
Alqahtany, S., Clarke, N., Furnell, S., Reich, C.\
56826153600;8961310300;7003551084;24344999900;\
A forensic acquisition and analysis system for IaaS: Architectural model and experiment\
(2016) Proceedings - 2016 11th International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security, ARES 2016, art. no. 7784592, pp. 345-354. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85015329291&doi=10.1109%2fARES.2016.58&partnerID=40&md5=cb9d2bfc23b96800e926b7469506f000\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ARES.2016.58\
AFFILIATIONS: Centre for Security, Communications and Network Research, Plymouth University, Plymouth, United Kingdom; \
Security Research Institute, Edith Cowan University, Perth, Australia; \
Centre for Research in Information and Cyber Security, Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University, Port Elizabeth, South Africa; \
Information and Media Centre, Hochschule Furtwangen University, Furtwangen, Germany\
ABSTRACT: Cloud computing has been advancing at a feverish pace. It has become one of the most important research topics in computer science and information systems. Cloud computing offers enterprise-scale platforms in a short time frame with little effort. Thus, it delivers significant economic benefits to both commercial and public entities. Despite this, the security and subsequent incident management requirements are major obstacles to adopting the cloud. Current cloud architectures do not support digital forensic investigators, nor comply with today's digital forensics procedures - largely due to the dynamic nature of the cloud. When an incident has occurred, an organization-based investigation will seek to provide potential digital evidence while minimizing the cost of investigation. However, all members engaging in digital forensics must rely, to a very significant degree, upon the assistance of cloud providers to present relevant evidence Unfortunately, providers often lack appropriate tools and features to perform adequate acquisition and analysis. Therefore, dependence on the CSPs is considered one of the most significant challenges when investigators need to acquire evidence in a timely yet forensically sound manner from cloud systems. This paper aims to achieve two objectives: the first objective is the development and validation of a forensic acquisition system in an Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) model in order to ensure organizations remain in complete control, remove the burden/liability from the CSPs and make it easy to acquire the evidence in a forensically sound and timely manner. Secondly, it is to investigate the technical implications and costs resulting from such a system on the day-to-day operation of a cloud system. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud computing;  Cloud forensics challenges;  Cloud forensics solutions;  Digital forensics;  Digital investigation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 663\
Adjepon-Yamoah, D.E., Wen, Z.\
57126469600;56146379100;\
Assuring Dependable Cloud-Based System Engineering: A Cloud Accountability Method\
(2016) Proceedings - 2016 12th European Dependable Computing Conference, EDCC 2016, art. no. 7780357, pp. 181-184. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85013790343&doi=10.1109%2fEDCC.2016.20&partnerID=40&md5=ad9612f3cafc3f1fefd7ee145f383518\
\
DOI: 10.1109/EDCC.2016.20\
AFFILIATIONS: Centre for Software Reliability, School of Computing Science, Newcastle University, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, NE17RU, United Kingdom; \
Centre for Intelligent Systems and Their Applications, School of Informatics, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, EH12QL, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: This work introduces a methodology for cloud accountability that assures system dependability in terms of availability and reliability. This assurance is provided relative to the cloud service level agreement. The presented methodology is guided by the NIST SP800-86 digital forensic model, that motivates the collection, examination and analysis of data from the cloud platform, and the generated evidence including logs and context are reported to appropriate cloud agents. As part of this work, we present a novel approach to collecting digital evidence to support cloud-based system dependability, using the Virtual Machine Introspection (VMI) technique. Our VMI approach complements, as well as checks the dependability metrics provided by the cloud service providers (CSPs) as evidence. This methodology, including the VMI approach is particularly relevant since it provides a means of addressing the perceived lack of trust for cloud-based services towards cloud accountability. Our research focuses on applying an evidence-based methodology-cloud accountability method-to cloud-based system engineering for assuring cloud agents of the dependability of cloud platforms. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud Accountability;  Dependability;  Digital Forensic;  Net Present Value;  System Engineering;  Virtual Machine Introspection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 664\
Al-Athamneh, M., Kurugollu, F., Crookes, D., Farid, M.\
57192914676;6602776031;7006641731;7102155197;\
Video authentication based on statistical local information\
(2016) Proceedings - 9th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Utility and Cloud Computing, UCC 2016, pp. 388-391. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85009083475&doi=10.1145%2f2996890.3007857&partnerID=40&md5=0f840c70b9f566eba1c3fd5a2b769fc2\
\
DOI: 10.1145/2996890.3007857\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Electronics, Communications and Information Technology (ECIT), Queen's University Belfast, United Kingdom; \
Department of Electronics, Computing and Mathematics, University of Derby, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: With the outgrowth of video editing tools, video information trustworthiness becomes a hypersensitive field. Today many devices have the capability of capturing digital videos such as CCTV, digital cameras and mobile phones and these videos may transmitted over the Internet or any other non secure channel. As digital video can be used to as supporting evidence, it has to be protected against manipulation or tampering. As most video authentication techniques are based on watermarking and digital signatures, these techniques are effectively used in copyright purposes but difficult to implement in other cases such as video surveillance or in videos captured by consumer's cameras. In this paper we propose an intelligent technique for video authentication which uses the video local information which makes it useful for real world applications. The proposed algorithm relies on the video's statistical local information which was applied on a dataset of videos captured by a range of consumer video cameras. The results show that the proposed algorithm has potential to be a reliable intelligent technique in digital video authentication without the need to use for SVM classifier which makes it faster and less computationally expensive in comparing with other intelligent techniques. Copyright \'a9 2016 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Tamper detection;  Tampering attacks;  Video authentication\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 665\
Vijaykanth Reddy, T., Kumari, G.R.N.\
57193998557;55941015400;\
Tamper detection for digital images\
(2016) International Journal of Pharmacy and Technology, 8 (4), pp. 21289-21296. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85018206206&partnerID=40&md5=08cd55e8af28b64c080889504d7d43db\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science Engineering, Saveetha School of Engineering, Saveetha University, Chennai, India\
ABSTRACT: The wide availability of high-quality image editing software, general users can now easily edit or enhance digital image contain many ways. However, these easy-to-use image editing techniques also pose new challenges in digital forensics. Many passive or non intrusive methods have been developed for detecting tampering in digital images. Some methods rely on detecting traces resulting from image acquisition or tampering operations, such as resampling, color filter array interpolation, camera sensor noise pattern, and scanner sensor noise. Other methods attempt to analyze the inconsistencies in lighting direction or statistical properties of natural images. Unfortunately, most existing methods are effective only for uncompressed raw images and are very vulnerable to JPEG compression. Since the JPEG image format has now been adopted in digital cameras and image processing software, it is vital to account for compression issues in tampering detection methods. Tampering in JPEG images often involves re-compression and thus changes the original compression characteristics. Most existing tampering detection methods for JPEG images attempt to detect inconsistency in compression characteristics. Some rely on detecting inconsistency of JPEG quantization tables. Others use the compression artifacts, either in spatial or frequency domain, as an inherent signature for JPEG images. Although these approaches adopt different compression characteristics, different methods have their restrictions and drawbacks. In the following subsection, we briefly summarize these approaches and their restrictions. \'a9 2016, International Journal of Pharmacy and Technology. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Image segmentation;  Inpaintin;  Optical security;  Pattern recognition;  Tampere dregion detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 666\
Simou, S., Kalloniatis, C., Gritzalis, S., Mouratidis, H.\
56226509000;8935567300;6701410579;35512143700;\
A survey on cloud forensics challenges and solutions\
(2016) Security and Communication Networks, 9 (18), pp. 6285-6314. Cited 14 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85002292169&doi=10.1002%2fsec.1688&partnerID=40&md5=0d640b4bc3f9a7cfece4e4f21f2469f9\
\
DOI: 10.1002/sec.1688\
AFFILIATIONS: Cultural Informatics Laboratory, Department of Cultural Technology and Communication, University of the Aegean, University Hill, Mytilene, GR81100, Greece; \
Information and Communication Systems Security Laboratory, Department of Information and Communications Systems Engineering, University of the Aegean, Samos, GR83200, Greece; \
School of Computing, Engineering and Mathematics, University of Brighton, Watts Building, Lewes Road, Brighton, BN2 4GJ, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: In recent years, cloud computing has gained popularity, and it is now used to support various areas of human life. Cloud forensics has been introduced to help forensic investigators find potential evidence against cloud criminal activities and maintain the security and integrity of the information stored in the cloud. While great research in the area has been carried out concerning challenges and solutions, the research on methodologies and frameworks is still in its infancy. This article focuses on the methodological aspects of cloud forensics. It critically reviews cloud forensics' existing challenges and solutions, and it explores, based on a detailed review of the area, all the work that has been carried out both in digital and cloud forensic methodologies mainly for supporting the investigation of security incidents in cloud. Furthermore, the detailed comparison reveals similarities and drawbacks of the existing methodologies providing some novel future research directions. Finally, the specific paper can be considered as a starting point for researchers wishing to design cloud-forensicable services over the cloud. Copyright \'a9 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Copyright \'a9 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: cloud forensics;  cloud forensics challenges;  cloud forensics methodologies;  cloud forensics solutions;  digital forensics methodologies;  review\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 667\
Morrison, G.S., Enzinger, E.\
12778143300;37079095600;\
Multi-laboratory evaluation of forensic voice comparison systems under conditions reflecting those of a real forensic case (forensic_eval_01) \'96 Introduction\
(2016) Speech Communication, 85, pp. 119-126. Cited 11 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84994316273&doi=10.1016%2fj.specom.2016.07.006&partnerID=40&md5=bd3eba9fe4fcca9bf47b315588776c08\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.specom.2016.07.006\
AFFILIATIONS: Morrison & Enzinger, Independent Forensic Consultants, Vancouver, British Columbia, United States; \
Department of Linguistics, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada\
ABSTRACT: There is increasing pressure on forensic laboratories to validate the performance of forensic analysis systems before they are used to assess strength of evidence for presentation in court. Different forensic voice comparison systems may use different approaches, and even among systems using the same general approach there can be substantial differences in operational details. From case to case, the relevant population, speaking styles, and recording conditions can be highly variable, but it is common to have relatively poor recording conditions and mismatches in speaking style and recording conditions between the known- and questioned-speaker recordings. In order to validate a system intended for use in casework, a forensic laboratory needs to evaluate the degree of validity and reliability of the system under forensically realistic conditions. The present paper is an introduction to a Virtual Special Issue consisting of papers reporting on the results of testing forensic voice comparison systems under conditions reflecting those of an actual forensic voice comparison case. A set of training and test data representative of the relevant population and reflecting the conditions of this particular case has been released, and operational and research laboratories are invited to use these data to train and test their systems. The present paper includes the rules for the evaluation and a description of the evaluation metrics and graphics to be used. The name of the evaluation is: forensic_eval_01. \'a9 2016 Elsevier B.V.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Casework conditions;  Evaluation;  Forensic voice comparison;  Reliability;  Validity\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Editorial\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 668\
Chemello, N.\
36982911600;\
Correlating CDR with other data sources\
(2016) 2016 IEEE International Conference on Cybercrime and Computer Forensic, ICCCF 2016, art. no. 7740425, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85004140772&doi=10.1109%2fICCCF.2016.7740425&partnerID=40&md5=014c68a099c1df5201c98ae834388e84\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICCCF.2016.7740425\
AFFILIATIONS: Securcube Srl, Asolo, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Currently, the world of digital forensics analysis is dividing into multiple branches, with each branch needing its own specific set of skills and competences. A growing number of best practices for analysing the different media are reported in many publications, such as the Scientific Working Group on Digital Evidence website [1]. The forensics analysis of a video, for example, shares nothing in common (except scientific procedure) with the examination of a mobile content extraction. This ongoing fragmentation of the digital forensics specialisations impacts on the ability to acquire a comprehensive global overview of the entire investigation. The range of data is vast, and thus, selecting the right insight is vital, for example, using a known procedure or tested tool to conduct the investigation, as described in the Computer Forensic Tool Testing Program (CFTT NIST) documentation [2]. CDR (Call Detail Record) analysis is a great source of information, but is sometimes overlooked; the volume of the data seems overwhelming and the lack of a standard model could be discouraging. Combining this massive amount of useful data with other data sources, such as GPS positions, BTS log files, mobile extractions, highway and traffic logs, will provide the investigator with a complete picture of the events. CDR analysis can be the keystone of the digital forensics world, pulling all the elements together to effectively counteract anti-forensics. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: BTS logs;  call detail record;  CDR;  data correlation;  digital forensics;  digital investigations;  mobile extractions\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 669\
Warbhe, A.D., Dharaskar, R.V., Thakare, V.M.\
37011809200;26632907100;8264851500;\
Digital image forensics: An affine transform robust copy-paste tampering detection\
(2016) Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems and Control, ISCO 2016, art. no. 7727045, . Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85007363589&doi=10.1109%2fISCO.2016.7727045&partnerID=40&md5=748f213836be6370b4855554395211a7\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISCO.2016.7727045\
AFFILIATIONS: CSE SGBAU, Amravati University, Amravati, India; \
Disha-DIMAT, Raipur, India\
ABSTRACT: It became very easy today to capture and create digital photographs. It's no more a costlier affair, as most of the handheld electronic gadgets such as mobile phones are equipped with digital cameras. Today, there are ample PC and mobile apps available which are developed to manipulate captured photographs. One can easily take a picture, manipulate it with the installed app and make it viral through the internet. Hence, these digital photographs should not be interpreted as they speak. Digital images are the good proof of events and places. Hence, these digital photographs can be presented as evidence before a court of law. It becomes very important in such cases then, to prove the digital photographs in question to be original. Digital image forensics plays a vital role in such circumstances. Digital image forensics is a branch of digital forensics which deals with examining the digital photographs for their integrity and authenticity. In this paper, we present a digital image forensic method which can detect one of such image tampering. As images can be tampered in a number of ways, in this paper, we address a common case called as copy-paste tampering. Our proposed method is robust to affine transform; especially to rotation and scaling. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Image Forensics;  Image Authentication;  Image Forgery;  Image Tampering;  Multimedia Forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 670\
Mohite, M.P., Deshmukh, J.Y., Gulve, P.R.\
56958390400;34879637900;57192687223;\
Qualitative and quantitative analysis of cloud based digital forensic tool\
(2016) Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Intelligent Systems and Control, ISCO 2016, art. no. 7727074, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85007326329&doi=10.1109%2fISCO.2016.7727074&partnerID=40&md5=c6544089d78cd793258202136f916bc9\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISCO.2016.7727074\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Engineering, JSPM's B.S.I.O.T.R., Pune, India\
ABSTRACT: Digital evidence stored on digital devices play an important role in a wide range of types of crime, including murder, computer intrusion, espionage, extortion and child pornography in proof of a fact about what did or did not happen. However, digital information is fragile because it can be easily modified, copied, stored or destroyed. All digital evidence will be analyzed to determine the type of information stored in digital devices. The field of Digital Forensics is highly dependent on Tools with more features. In our work Cloud Based Digital Forensic Tool (CBDFT) is developed for acquisition, preservation, analysis and presentation of digital evidence. In this paper to measure the functionality of various forensic tools, we have compared the results generated by CBDFT with other available tools like FTK, Encase, Recover my files, Recuva, Blade, and Forensic Imager. These tools were examined in a fixed scenario to show the differences and capabilities of each tool. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud Computing;  Computer Forensic;  Digital Evidence;  Forensic Investigation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 671\
Ariffin, A., Choo, K.-K.R., Yunos, Z.\
55701508600;57208540261;36180385200;\
Forensic Readiness: A Case Study on Digital CCTV Systems Antiforensics\
(2016) Contemporary Digital Forensic Investigations of Cloud and Mobile Applications, pp. 147-162. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85013212410&doi=10.1016%2fB978-0-12-805303-4.00010-1&partnerID=40&md5=e80ab4426d0c2a3bbfd2c300ccbd7253\
\
DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-12-805303-4.00010-1\
AFFILIATIONS: CyberSecurity Malaysia, Mines Resort City, Malaysia; \
University of Texas at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, United States; \
University of South Australia, Adelaide, SA, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Digital closed-circuit television (CCTV) systems are deployed by government agencies, the private sector, and in private households for surveillance and to deter crime. These systems use digital video recorders (DVRs) to record events with timestamps on storage media and are capable of streaming the captured scenes to smartphones via mobile applications for mobile monitoring. With digital CCTV systems widely integrated into society, the role of digital forensics is more important than ever and the concept central to digital forensics is digital evidence. There are, however, challenges faced by digital forensic practitioners in acquiring the digital evidence from digital CCTV systems due to a range of reasons. These include damaged systems (intentionally or by accident, electronically or physically), and the use of antiforensic techniques by the suspect to obstruct the forensic data recovery of the multimedia evidence. In this book chapter we present an antiforensics framework for digital CCTV systems that allows permanent deletion of multimedia files based on selected timestamp, and an antiforensic prototype tool. Two DVRs of digital CCTV systems and an iPhone were used as case studies to demonstrate the utility of our framework and tool. Findings from this research provide digital forensic practitioners to have an in-depth understanding of residual evidence pertaining to the investigation of CCTV systems. This chapter also provides insights on the importance for manufacturers to include forensic readiness in the design of their digital CCTV systems. \'a9 2017 Copyright \'a9 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved..\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital CCTV antiforensics;  Forensic readiness;  IPhone encrypted image;  Timestamp;  Video stream\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 672\
Sharma, S., Dhavale, S.V.\
57191912651;36699510600;\
A review of passive forensic techniques for detection of copy-move attacks on digital videos\
(2016) ICACCS 2016 - 3rd International Conference on Advanced Computing and Communication Systems: Bringing to the Table, Futuristic Technologies from Arround the Globe, art. no. 7586396, . Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84994702014&doi=10.1109%2fICACCS.2016.7586396&partnerID=40&md5=7cd6a1f6282fd3396fdfb8c9fab8140e\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICACCS.2016.7586396\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Science and Engg Department, Defence Institute of Advanced Technology, Pune, India\
ABSTRACT: In recent times, the ease in availability and usability of digital video editing tools has become a major challenge to video forensic experts, to accurately authenticate any suspected digital video content. Besides, the wide range and rapid advancement in the field of such editing tools and improvements in anti-forensic techniques has enabled any na\'efve user to edit, alter, and modify any digital video with minimal traces/footprints. Recent surveys in the field of digital video forensics highlight the need of research in this field. The requirement of authenticating the integrity of the contents of digital videos ranges from an individual to organizations, defense and security setups to law enforcement agencies. Further to it, the need to explore newer and more effective Passive (or Blind) video forgery detection approaches is gaining importance day by day. This is attributable to the fact that digital videos are accepted as evidences in most of the countries and real life cases involving tampered digital videos, more often than not, rarely get supplemented by any other reference information besides the suspected video. This paper aims at highlighting the challenges and brings out opportunities in the field of Passive or Blind digital video forensics, focusing on spatio-temporal or copy-move attacks on digital videos, by reviewing the existing literature and research work in this field. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Copy-Move attacks;  Digital Forensics;  Passive video forensics;  Spatio-Temporal video forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 673\
Sumalatha, M.R., Batsa, P.\
16679943800;57191358179;\
Data collection and audit logs of digital forensics in cloud\
(2016) 2016 International Conference on Recent Trends in Information Technology, ICRTIT 2016, art. no. 7569587, . Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84991819395&doi=10.1109%2fICRTIT.2016.7569587&partnerID=40&md5=4c092d08933f88ce701f3e9380a7722e\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICRTIT.2016.7569587\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of IT, MIT Campus, Anna University, Chennai, Tamilnadu, India\
ABSTRACT: Cloud computing has become more important to the users and the service providers, since it is convenient for the users to get the required service from their service providers. As the amount of services given rises, the amount spent on privacy and security of these services too raise. The internet as it is known has been growing insecure in the recent years. With the vast expanse of technology with regard to cloud computing and popularization of the same, the crimes due to these or on these devices will also increase in the near future. The digital environment should be capable of not only preventing the attacks, but it should also be capable enough to deal with the high security threat to defend it. Logs based forensic model approach which is to build a forensic-friendly system has been proposed. A proposed framework for the pursuit of a cloud computing digital investigation is environment that depends on a particular event's 'cause and effects'. Search for evidence and to develop hypotheses about such events that at the crime. In the proposed work, Log audit plays a vital role in the forensic framework. Logs model with timestamps can collect the information on the cloud rapidly for forensic resolutions. Hence the complexity involved in these kinds of forensics is reduced. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Crimes;  Digital Forensics;  Digital Investigation;  Distributed Database Systems;  Evidence;  Logs Model\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 674\
Song, J., Lee, K., Lee, W.Y., Lee, H.\
56469988900;56582950700;14024347300;14024523600;\
Integrity verification of the ordered data structures in manipulated video content\
(2016) Digital Investigation, 18, pp. 1-7. Cited 15 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84976870747&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2016.06.001&partnerID=40&md5=26ae3a7bf2b908587763f030cf0525dc\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2016.06.001\
AFFILIATIONS: Korea University, South Korea; \
Dongduk Women's University, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Video content stored in Video Event Data Recorders (VEDRs) are used as important evidence when certain events such as vehicle collisions occur. However, with sophisticated video editing software, assailants can easily manipulate video records to their advantage without leaving visible clues. Therefore, the integrity of video content recorded through VEDRs cannot be guaranteed, and the number of related forensic issues increases. Existing video integrity detection methods use the statistical properties of the pixels within each frame of the video. However, these methods require ample time, because they check frames individually. Moreover, the frame can easily be replaced and forged using the appropriate public software. To solve this problem, we propose an integrity checking mechanism using the structure of ordered fields in a video file, because existing video editing software does not allow users to access or modify field structures. In addition, because our proposed method involves checking the header information of video content only once, much less detection time is required compared with existing methods that examine the entire frames. We store an ordered file structure of video content as a signature in the database using a customized automated tool. The signature appears according to the video editing software. Then, the suspected video content is compared to a set of signatures. If the file structure matches with a signature, we recognize a manipulated video file by its corresponding editing software. We tested five types of video editing software that cover 99% of the video editing software market share. Furthermore, we arranged 305,981 saving options for all five video editing suites. As a result, we obtained 100% detection accuracy using stored signatures, without false positives, in a collection of 305,981 video files. The principle of this method can be applied to other video formats. \'a9 2016 Elsevier Ltd\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Data structure;  Digital forensics;  Integrity verification;  Video forgery\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 675\
Lee, C., Lee, J., Pyo, Y., Lee, H.\
57190973386;50062227500;57190978011;14024523600;\
Broken integrity detection of video files in video event data recorders\
(2016) KSII Transactions on Internet and Information Systems, 10 (8), pp. 3943-3957. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84984868312&doi=10.3837%2ftiis.2016.08.028&partnerID=40&md5=cf339d16a4d2bf3a0162e7fce611ef7a\
\
DOI: 10.3837/tiis.2016.08.028\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Korea University, Seoul, 02841, South Korea; \
Cyber Security Research Center, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, Daejeon, 34141, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: As digital evidence has a highly influential role in proving the innocence of suspects, methods for integrity verification of such digital evidence have become essential in the digital forensic field. Most surveillance camera systems are not equipped with proper built-in integrity protection functions. Because digital forgery techniques are becoming increasingly sophisticated, manually determining whether digital content has been falsified is becoming extremely difficult for investigators. Hence, systematic approaches to forensic integrity verification are essential for ascertaining truth or falsehood. We propose an integrity determination method that utilizes the structure of the video content in a Video Event Data Recorder (VEDR). The proposed method identifies the difference in frame index fields between a forged file and an original file. Experiments conducted using real VEDRs in the market and video files forged by a video editing tool demonstrate that the proposed integrity verification scheme can detect broken integrity in video content. \'a9 2016 KSII.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer security;  Digital forensics;  Multimedia forensics;  Multimedia security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 676\
Naskar, R., Malviya, P., Chakraborty, R.S.\
53866980700;56449095500;56194286800;\
Digital forensics: State-of-the-art and open problems\
(2016) Biometrics: Concepts, Methodologies, Tools, and Applications, pp. 1769-1787. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85015905735&doi=10.4018%2f978-1-5225-0983-7.ch074&partnerID=40&md5=a5a4e667c6b0bd085634fe82ee193159\
\
DOI: 10.4018/978-1-5225-0983-7.ch074\
AFFILIATIONS: National Institute of Technology Rourkela, India; \
Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, India\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics deal with cyber crime detection from digital multimedia data. In the present day, multimedia data such as images and videos are major sources of evidence in the courts of law worldwide. However, the immense proliferation and easy availability of low-cost or free, user-friendly and powerful image and video processing software, poses as the largest threat to today's digital world as well as the legal industry. This is due to the fact that such software allow efficient image and video editing, manipulation and synthesis, with a few mouse clicks even by a novice user. Such software also enable formation realistic of computer-generated images. In this chapter, we discuss different types of digital image forgeries and state-of-the-art digital forensic techniques to detect them. Through these discussions, we also give an idea of the challenges and open problems in the field of digital forensics. \'a9 2017, IGI Global. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 677\
Wang, J., Tang, Z.\
56320038200;55570666400;\
Domain feature oriented model for cloud forensics\
(2016) Nanjing Li Gong Daxue Xuebao/Journal of Nanjing University of Science and Technology, 40 (4), pp. 477-484. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84983035975&doi=10.14177%2fj.cnki.32-1397n.2016.40.04.017&partnerID=40&md5=d983b84df1b0062d099f395b5fcd1797\
\
DOI: 10.14177/j.cnki.32-1397n.2016.40.04.017\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science and Engineering, Nanjing University of Science and Technology, Nanjing, 210094, China\
ABSTRACT: The digital forensic process is becoming more and more complicated with the introduction of cloud computing. In order to ensure that the cloud digital evidence provided to the court as the trial basis, an extensible feature-based semantic model using object constraint language(OCL)and feature oriented domain analysis(FODA)for cloud digital forensics data is proposed. First, the presentation models of the feature, the feature space and the digital forensic feature space are defined respectively. Then, the association and dependency relations among the features of the forensic data are classified into four types: self constraint, father-son constraint, explicit constraint and implicit constraint. The four kinds of constraints are formally described by the object constraint language, which provides an accurate semantic support for such a model. Therefore, a feature tree can be built with semantic logical relation in order to get the overall semantic description of features in the forensic domain of digital data. It not only solves the presentation problem of digital forensics, but also solves the collision detection problem of static properties, which achieves static properties of electronic data. \'a9 2016, Editorial Department of Journal of Nanjing University of Science and Technology. All right reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud forensics;  Digital evidence;  Domain feature;  Object constraint language;  Process models\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 678\
Tang, Y., Fang, J., Chow, K.P., Yiu, S.M., Xu, J., Feng, B., Li, Q., Han, Q.\
55566607900;36132767400;7202180751;7003282240;57196732736;57208700416;7405861555;55544494100;\
Recovery of heavily fragmented JPEG files\
(2016) Digital Investigation, 18, pp. S108-S117. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84982844594&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2016.04.016&partnerID=40&md5=81cff381335b5c7ad728ae9b21d9c9b1\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2016.04.016\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Computer Science, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong; \
Dept. of Optoelectronic Engineering, Jinan University, China; \
Center for Social Computing and Information Retrieval, Harbin Institute of Technology, China; \
Department of Computer Science, Stony Brook University, United States; \
School of Computer Science and Technology, Harbin Institute of Technology, China\
ABSTRACT: File carving from damaged file system plays an important role in file recovery for identifying evidence in digital forensics. In this paper, we focus on JPEG file carving, with an emphasis on heavily fragmented cases. The difficulty lies on how to order fragmented pieces into a complete picture without sufficient decoding information. We provide a framework to tackle this problem, which consists of the following key components: (i) a new similarity metric (CED) to evaluate if two data blocks are consecutive in the same JPEG file and a fragmentation point detection algorithm based on CED; and (ii) an overall recovery algorithm to reconstruct the JPEG file from fragmented pieces. The proposed framework was verified on an image dump from a SD card of a digital camera. The results were compared to Adroit Photo Forensic (APF), a commonly used photo carving tool. In our experiments, our tool can automatically recover 97% fragmented JPEG files (versus 79% by APF). \'a9 2016 The Author(s)\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Color similarity;  Fragmentation point;  Fragmented JPEG file;  JPEG file carving;  Photo forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopes\
\
ID: 679\
Lee, K., Hwang, H., Kim, K., Noh, B.\
57190737870;57190743242;32367610600;6603862486;\
Robust bootstrapping memory analysis against anti-forensics\
(2016) Digital Investigation, 18, pp. S23-S32. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84982822045&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2016.04.009&partnerID=40&md5=a1281f6decd061b313d5d0a986a7b39a\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2016.04.009\
AFFILIATIONS: System Security Research Center, Chonnam National University, Gwangju, South Korea; \
The Affiliated Institute of ETRI, Daejeon, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Memory analysis is increasingly used to collect digital evidence in incident response. With the fast growth in memory analysis, however, anti-forensic techniques appear to prevent it from performing the bootstrapping steps \'97 operating system (OS) fingerprinting, Directory Table Base (DTB) identification, and obtaining kernel objects. Although most published research works try to solve anti forensics, they deal only with one element among the three steps. Thus, collapse in any of the three steps using the suggested robust algorithms leads to failure in the memory analysis. In this paper, we evaluate the latest memory forensic tools against anti-forensics. Then, we suggest a novel robust algorithm that guarantees the bootstrapping analysis steps. It uses only one kernel data structure called KiInitialPCR, which is a kernel global variable based on the kernel processor control region (KPCR) structure and has many fields with tolerance to mutation. We characterize the robust fields of the KPCR structure to use them for OS fingerprinting, DTB identification, and obtaining kernel objects. Then, we implement the KiInitialPCR-based analysis system. Therefore, we can analyze the compromised memory in spite of the interference of anti-forensics. \'a9 2016 The Author(s)\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Memory analysis;  Memory forensics;  OS fingerprinting;  Robust analysis;  Windows\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 680\
Neuner, S., Voyiatzis, A.G., Schmiedecker, M., Brunthaler, S., Katzenbeisser, S., Weippl, E.R.\
55635226000;6506519589;35849078200;35213111200;22333918500;8925433900;\
Time is on my side: Steganography in filesystem metadata\
(2016) Digital Investigation, 18, pp. S76-S86. Cited 22 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84982798158&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2016.04.010&partnerID=40&md5=d2d176c0881d3abf101d9f8028f0e99d\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2016.04.010\
AFFILIATIONS: SBA Research, Vienna, Austria; \
Technische Universit\'e4t Darmstadt, Germany\
ABSTRACT: We propose and explore the applicability of file timestamps as a steganographic channel. We identify an information gap between storage and usage of timestamps in modern operating systems that use high-precision timers. Building on this, we describe a layered design of a steganographic system that offers stealthiness, robustness, and wide applicability. The proposed design is evaluated through theoretical, evidence-based, and experimental analysis for the case of NTFS using datasets comprising millions of files. We report a proof-of-concept implementation and confirm that the embedded information is indistinguishable from that of a normal filesystem use. Finally, we discuss the digital forensics analysis implications of this new information-hiding technique. \'a9 2016 The Author(s)\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Data hiding;  Digital forensics;  File system forensics;  Real-world data corpus;  Steganography;  Storage forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 681\
Meffert, C.S., Baggili, I., Breitinger, F.\
57190738272;37261105300;44260893600;\
Deleting collected digital evidence by exploiting a widely adopted hardware write blocker\
(2016) Digital Investigation, 18, pp. S87-S96. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84982793257&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2016.04.004&partnerID=40&md5=fb8b88cd493a76221f242ff94d9633ce\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2016.04.004\
AFFILIATIONS: Cyber Forensics Research & Education Group, Tagliatela College of Engineering, ECECS, University of New Haven, 300 Boston Post Rd., West Haven, CT  06516, United States\
ABSTRACT: In this primary work we call for the importance of integrating security testing into the process of testing digital forensic tools. We postulate that digital forensic tools are increasing in features (such as network imaging), becoming networkable, and are being proposed as forensic cloud services. This raises the need for testing the security of these tools, especially since digital evidence integrity is of paramount importance. At the time of conducting this work, little to no published anti-forensic research had focused on attacks against the forensic tools/process. We used the TD3, a popular, validated, touch screen disk duplicator and hardware write blocker with networking capabilities and designed an attack that corrupted the integrity of the destination drive (drive with the duplicated evidence) without the user's knowledge. By also modifying and repackaging the firmware update, we illustrated that a potential adversary is capable of leveraging a phishing attack scenario in order to fake digital forensic practitioners into updating the device with a malicious operating system. The same attack scenario may also be practiced by a disgruntled insider. The results also raise the question of whether security standards should be drafted and adopted by digital forensic tool makers. \'a9 2016 The Author(s)\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-Forensics;  Digital forensic tool testing;  Digital forensics;  Frameworks;  Gismo;  Hardware write blocker;  NIST;  Root access;  TD3;  Vulnerability\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 682\
Conlan, K., Baggili, I., Breitinger, F.\
57190744489;37261105300;44260893600;\
Anti-forensics: Furthering digital forensic science through a new extended, granular taxonomy\
(2016) Digital Investigation, 18, pp. S66-S75. Cited 37 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84982786618&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2016.04.006&partnerID=40&md5=dfc50b6909a1126bcb6d772a5ca8c400\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2016.04.006\
AFFILIATIONS: Cyber Forensics Research & Education Group, Tagliatela College of Engineering, ECECS, University of New Haven, 300 Boston Post Rd., West Haven, CT  06516, United States\
ABSTRACT: Anti-forensic tools, techniques and methods are becoming a formidable obstacle for the digital forensic community. Thus, new research initiatives and strategies must be formulated to address this growing problem. In this work we first collect and categorize 308 anti-digital forensic tools to survey the field. We then devise an extended anti-forensic taxonomy to the one proposed by Rogers (2006) in order to create a more comprehensive taxonomy and facilitate linguistic standardization. Our work also takes into consideration anti-forensic activity which utilizes tools that were not originally designed for anti-forensic purposes, but can still be used with malicious intent. This category was labeled as Possible indications of anti-forensic activity, as certain software, scenarios, and digital artifacts could indicate anti-forensic activity on a system. We also publicly share our data sets, which includes categorical data on 308 collected anti-forensic tools, as well as 2780 unique hash values related to the installation files of 191 publicly available anti-forensic tools. As part of our analysis, the collected hash set was ran against the National Institute of Standards and Technology's 2016 National Software Reference Library, and only 423 matches were found out of the 2780 hashes. Our findings indicate a need for future endeavors in creating and maintaining exhaustive anti-forensic hash data sets. \'a9 2016 The Author(s)\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-digital forensics;  Anti-forensics;  Anti-forensics taxonomy;  Categorical data set;  Computer crime;  Digital forensics;  Formalizing digital forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 683\
Wang, F., Hu, L., Hu, J., Zhao, K.\
57199195626;34770075600;56720561300;18435554700;\
Computer forensic analysis model for the reconstruction of chain of evidence of volatile memory data\
(2016) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 75 (16), pp. 10097-10107. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84937057648&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-015-2798-8&partnerID=40&md5=bf9ee6d23aedd89b4271aabf54f7f5a7\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-015-2798-8\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Computer Science and Technology, Jilin University, Changchun, 130012, China\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensic data from volatile system memory possesses the following distinctive features: volatility, transience, phased stability, complexity, relevance of collected data, and phased behavior predictability. We present a computer forensic analysis model (CERM) for the reconstruction of a chain of evidence of volatile memory data. CERM frees analysts from being confined to the traditional analysis approach of digital forensic data that requires single evidence-oriented analysis. In CERM, they can focus on higher abstract levels involving the relationships of independent pieces of evidence and analyze patterns to construct a chain of evidence from the perspective of Evidence Law. In addition to CERM, we have designed a correlation analysis algorithm based on time series. Experimental tests have been conducted to verify the established model and designed algorithm. The experimental result shows that CERM is feasible and efficient, thus providing a new analysis perspective for digital forensic data from volatile system memory. \'a9 2015, Springer Science+Business Media New York.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Chain of evidence;  Computer forensics;  Memory data;  Time relevance;  Volatile\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 684\
Zhao, H., Chen, Y., Wang, R., Malik, H.\
55875100500;24472460700;55822280200;7006556079;\
Anti-Forensics of Environmental-Signature-Based Audio Splicing Detection and Its Countermeasure via Rich-Features Classification\
(2016) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 11 (7), art. no. 7435302, pp. 1603-1617. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84964873431&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2016.2543205&partnerID=40&md5=743cb5eef1c7a7ed573d98705e3b9c93\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2016.2543205\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, South University of Science and Technology of China, Shenzhen, 518055, China; \
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Michigan-Dearborn, Dearborn, MI  48128, United States\
ABSTRACT: Numerous methods for detecting audio splicing have been proposed. Environmental-signature-based methods are considered to be the most effective forgery detection methods. The performance of existing audio forensic analysis methods is generally measured in the absence of any anti-forensic attack. Effectiveness of these methods in the presence of anti-forensic attacks is therefore unknown. In this paper, we propose an effective anti-forensic attack for environmental-signature-based splicing detection method and countermeasures to detect the presence of the anti-forensic attack. For anti-forensic attack, dereverberation-based processing is proposed. Three dereverberation methods are considered to tamper with the acoustic environment signature. Experimental results indicate that the proposed dereverberation-based anti-forensic attack significantly degrades the performance of the selected splicing detection method. The proposed countermeasures exploit artifacts introduced by the anti-forensic processing. To detect the presence of potential anti-forensic processing, a machine learning-based framework is proposed. In particular, the proposed anti-forensic detection method uses a rich-feature model consisting of Fourier coefficients, spectral properties, high-order statistics of musical noise residuals, and modulation spectral coefficients to capture traces of dereverberation attacks. The performance of the proposed framework is evaluated on both synthetic data and real-world speech recordings. The experimental results show that the proposed rich-feature model can detect the presence of anti-forensic processing with an average accuracy of 95%. \'a9 2015 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Audio Splicing Detection;  Modulation Spectrum;  Musical Noise;  Spectral Features\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 685\
Hosmer, C., Bartolomie, J., Pelli, R.\
6603502676;57191166561;57191166399;\
Executing Windows Command Line Investigations: While Ensuring Evidentiary Integrity\
(2016) Executing Windows Command Line Investigations: While Ensuring Evidentiary Integrity, pp. 1-208. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84987699099&doi=10.1016%2fC2015-0-00738-9&partnerID=40&md5=73abbf9ab73911faa956a7b16c1dcbd0\
\
DOI: 10.1016/C2015-0-00738-9\
ABSTRACT: The book Executing Windows Command Line Investigations targets the needs of cyber security practitioners who focus on digital forensics and incident response. These are the individuals who are ultimately responsible for executing critical tasks such as incident response; forensic analysis and triage; damage assessments; espionage or other criminal investigations; malware analysis; and responding to human resource violations. The authors lead readers through the importance of Windows CLI, as well as optimal configuration and usage. Readers will then learn the importance of maintaining evidentiary integrity, evidence volatility, and gain appropriate insight into methodologies that limit the potential of inadvertently destroying or otherwise altering evidence. Next, readers will be given an overview on how to use the proprietary software that accompanies the book as a download from the companion website. This software, called Proactive Incident Response Command Shell (PIRCS), developed by Harris Corporation provides an interface similar to that of a Windows CLI that automates evidentiary chain of custody and reduces human error and documentation gaps during incident response. Includes a free download of the Proactive Incident Response Command Shell (PIRCS) software Learn about the technical details of Windows CLI so you can directly manage every aspect of incident response evidence acquisition and triage, while maintaining evidentiary integrity. \'a9 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 686 **SELECTED** SID: 38\
Pieterse, H., Olivier, M.S., Van Heerden, R.P.\
55487079900;7101741068;6506752785;\
Reference architecture for android applications to support the detection of manipulated evidence\
(2016) SAIEE Africa Research Journal, 107 (2), pp. 92-103. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84987618941&doi=10.23919%2fsaiee.2016.8531545&partnerID=40&md5=1baa7bda8a7ac4e224baf9e6452edb85\
\
DOI: 10.23919/saiee.2016.8531545\
AFFILIATIONS: Defence, Peace, Safety and Security, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, Pretoria, South Africa; \
Department of Computer Science, University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa; \
Meraka Institute, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, Pretoria, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: Traces found on Android smartphones form a significant part of digital investigations. A key component of these traces is the date and time, often formed as timestamps. These timestamps allow the examiner to relate the traces found on Android smartphones to some real event that took place. This paper performs exploratory experiments that involve the manipulation of timestamps found in SQLite databases on Android smartphones. Based on observations, specific heuristics are identified that may allow for the identification of manipulated timestamps. To overcome the limitations of these heuristics, a new reference architecture for Android applications is also introduced. The reference architecture provides examiners with a better understanding of Android applications as well as the associated digital evidence. The results presented in the paper show that the suggested techniques to establish the authenticity and accuracy of digital evidence are feasible. \'a9 2015 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android;  Digital forensics;  Mobile forensics;  Reference architecture;  Smartphones;  Timestamps\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 687\
Yoon, J., Jeong, D., Kang, C.-H., Lee, S.\
57189099921;56585345100;55255370900;36063408400;\
Forensic investigation framework for the document store NoSQL DBMS: MongoDB as a case study\
(2016) Digital Investigation, 17, pp. 53-65. Cited 23 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84965161438&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2016.03.003&partnerID=40&md5=9936386a1ef89e673a53d2dae1f8564d\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2016.03.003\
AFFILIATIONS: Center for Information Security Technologies (CIST), Korea University, Anam-Dong, Seongbuk-Gu, Seoul, South Korea; \
Digital Forensic Center, Supreme Prosecutors' Office, Banpo-daero, Seocho-Gu, Seoul, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: The NoSQL DBMS provides an efficient means of storing and accessing big data because its servers are more easily horizontally scalable and replicable than relational DBMSs. Its data model lacks a fixed schema, so that users can easily dynamically change the data model of applications. These characteristics of the NoSQL DBMS mean that it is increasingly used in real-time analysis, web services such as SNS, mobile apps and the storage of machine generated data such as logs and IoT (Internet of Things) data. Although the increased usage of the NoSQL DBMS increases the possibility of it becoming a target of crime, there are few papers about forensic investigation of NoSQL DBMS. In this paper, we propose a forensic investigation framework for the document store NoSQL DBMS. It is difficult to cover all of the NoSQL DBMS, as 'NoSQL' includes several distinct architectures; our forensic investigation framework, however, is focused on the document store NoSQL DBMS. In order to conduct an evaluative case study, we need to apply it to MongoDB, which is, a widely used document store NoSQL DBMS. For this case study, a crime scenario is created in an experimental environment, and then we propose in detail a forensic procedure and technical methods for MongoDB. We suggested many substantial technical investigation methods for MongoDB, including identifying real servers storing evidences in a distributed environment and transaction reconstruction method, using log analysis and recovering deleted data from the MongoDB data file structure. \'a9 2016 Elsevier Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Database forensics;  Digital forensics;  Document store NoSQL DBMS;  MongoDB;  NoSQL DBMS\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 688\
De Braekt, R.I., Le-Khac, N.-A., Farina, J., Scanlon, M., Kechadi, T.\
57190137179;16175564100;56136353100;52264702800;6603214509;\
Increasing digital investigator availability through efficient workflow management and automation\
(2016) 4th International Symposium on Digital Forensics and Security, ISDFS 2016 - Proceeding, art. no. 7473520, pp. 68-73. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84977658552&doi=10.1109%2fISDFS.2016.7473520&partnerID=40&md5=f7a99fb4a9755d967ec1507aebfe39c2\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISDFS.2016.7473520\
AFFILIATIONS: Korps Nationale Pohtie, Netherlands; \
School of Computer Science, University College Dublin, Ireland\
ABSTRACT: The growth of digital storage capacities and diversity devices has had a significant time impact on digital forensic laboratories in law enforcement. Backlogs have become commonplace and increasingly more time is spent in the acquisition and preparation steps of an investigation as opposed to detailed evidence analysis and reporting. There is generally little room for increasing digital investigation capacity in law enforcement digital forensic units and the allocated budgets for these units are often decreasing. In the context of developing an efficient investigation process, one of the key challenges amounts to how to achieve more with less. This paper proposes a workflow management automation framework for handling common digital forensic tools. The objective is to streamline the digital investigation workflow - enabling more efficient use of limited hardware and software. The proposed automation framework reduces the time digital forensic experts waste conducting timeconsuming, though necessary, tasta. The evidence processing time is decreased through server-side automation resulting in 24/7 evidence preparation. The proposed framework increases efficiency of use of forensic software and hardware, reduces the infrastructure costs and license fees, and simplifies the preparation steps for the digital investigator. The proposed approach is evaluated in a real-world scenario to evaluate its robustness and highlight its benefits. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Investigative process;  Workflow automation;  Workflow management\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 689\
Wu, X., Han, Q., Niu, X.\
56683322500;55544494100;7103278179;\
Reassembling fragmented BMP files based on padding bytes\
(2016) Journal of Electronic Imaging, 25 (3), art. no. 033002, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84977676219&doi=10.1117%2f1.JEI.25.3.033002&partnerID=40&md5=da304e9ea582f03356dbc6c9f0766c11\
\
DOI: 10.1117/1.JEI.25.3.033002\
AFFILIATIONS: Harbin Institute of Technology, School of Computer Science and Technology, Science Park of Harbin Institute of Technology, Room 1523, Building 2A, Yikuang Street 2, Harbin, Heilongjiang, 150001, China\
ABSTRACT: Reassembling fragmented image files plays a crucial role in seizing digital evidence from scattered digital image files. The existing algorithms are mainly graph based, which cast the reassembly problem as a K-vertex disjoint path problem in a directed complete graph, which is an NP-complete problem. Based on the padding bytes in BMP files, we present a method to exclude most impossible paths, which can improve the accuracy and decrease the time complexity of the existing graph-based methods. According to the alignment rule of BMP format, padding bytes must be appended to the end of each row to bring up the length of the row to a multiple of 4 bytes. Hence the fragment, being a vertex of the path which correctly reassembles a file, has a property; its byte values at padding positions must be the padding values. Only the fragments with such property can be candidate fragments for the vertex. On the test dataset which is constructed based on 330 image files, taking eight classical methods as examples, we show that the proposed method produces an accuracy improvement ranging from 32% to 55%, and reduces the run time to a scope from 1/6 to 1/237. \'a9 2016 SPIE and IS&T.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: BMP image files;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Fragmented file reassembly;  Padding bytes\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 690\
Luo, D., Sun, M., Huang, J.\
56508888300;57189055801;56057258200;\
Audio postprocessing detection based on amplitude cooccurrence vector feature\
(2016) IEEE Signal Processing Letters, 23 (5), art. no. 7445827, pp. 688-692. Cited 14 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84964940136&doi=10.1109%2fLSP.2016.2549600&partnerID=40&md5=70cf7c4f033e3c3677c4bda829abdb52\
\
DOI: 10.1109/LSP.2016.2549600\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Information Engineering, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, 518060, China; \
Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Media Security, Shenzhen, 518060, China\
ABSTRACT: Authentication of audio signals is an important problem in multimedia forensics. Tampering is typically followed by postprocessing that aims to remove the traces of the forgery. The variety of possible postprocessing operations makes tampering detection even more challenging. In this letter, we propose the amplitude cooccurrence vector features, which exploit cooccurrence patterns in audio signals. Experimental results show that our proposed features are able to distinguish between the original audio and the postprocessed audio with an average accuracy of above 95%. Furthermore, it can also effectively discriminate different kinds of postprocessing operations. \'a9 1994-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: amplitude co-occurrences;  audio software;  digital forensics;  post-processing\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 691\
Marangos, N., Rizomiliotis, P., Mitrou, L.\
55636600000;6506887890;12783223800;\
Time synchronization: Pivotal element in cloud forensics\
(2016) Security and Communication Networks, 9 (6), pp. 571-582. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84959292571&doi=10.1002%2fsec.1056&partnerID=40&md5=876e730a2b7ab4ffa473934eeae4bbc5\
\
DOI: 10.1002/sec.1056\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information and Communication Systems Engineering, University of the Aegean, Karlovassi, Samos, GR-83200, Greece\
ABSTRACT: Cloud computing (CC) is the new trend in computing and resource management. This architectural shift toward thin clients and the centralized on-demand provision of computing resources aspires to offer significant economical benefits to its users. However, the adaption of the CC model has forced many times the IT industry and the academia to revisit most of the traditional tools and technologies. The last few years, it has been identified that one of the computer branches that has been most affected by the CC model is Digital Forensics, one of the main law enforcement tools in the cyberspace. In this context, a new security area was born, the so-called cloud forensics (CF). In this paper, we investigate the impact that the CC model has on the trustworthiness of one of the main CF sources of information, the log-files. More precisely, we bring forth a crucial but rather underestimated problem, the problem of accurate log-records timestamping. The synchronization of time (stamps) is of major importance for the investigation logs to be used as source of evidence. We show that this requirement is not easy in the cloud context. We demonstrate that the main features of CC render existing time synchronization techniques inadequate, and we provide a list of guidelines toward a CF aware timekeeping system. \'a9 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud computing;  Digital forensics;  Timekeeping\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 692\
Shandilya, M., Naskar, R., Dixit, R.\
57191861205;53866980700;57169857000;\
Detection of geometric transformations in copy-move forgery of digital images\
(2016) 12th IEEE International Conference Electronics, Energy, Environment, Communication, Computer, Control: (E3-C3), INDICON 2015, art. no. 7443141, . Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84994384379&doi=10.1109%2fINDICON.2015.7443141&partnerID=40&md5=081a4f6c852d9ff8ac88056d058c3cc6\
\
DOI: 10.1109/INDICON.2015.7443141\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, NIT Rourkela, Rourkela, 769008, India\
ABSTRACT: Digital images and videos play the most important role in digital forensics. They are the prime evidences of any crime scene. Among all classes of image forgeries region-duplication is the simplest and most widely launched technique to forge an image. Region duplication is also known as copy-move forgery. In this type of forgery one part of the image is copied and then pasted into another part of the same image. In this paper we particularly deal with copy-move form of digital image forgery. The existing techniques for identifying copy-move forgery are based on exact block matching approach. However, the existing techniques detect an image forgery when the copied region(s) is/are directly moved to another location of the image, without undergoing any geometric transformation. In this paper we propose a technique to detect geometrically transformed copy-moved image regions. Specifically we aim to detect rotation, rescaling, as well as a combination of both. We use Scale Invariant Feature Transform (SIFT) for our purpose. \'a9 2015 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Block matching;  Cyber security;  Digital forensics;  Digital image forgery;  Euclidean distance;  Region duplication\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 693\
Zoubek, C., Seufert, S., Dewald, A.\
57148617400;6603394178;36096530300;\
Generic RAID reassembly using block-level entropy\
(2016) Digital Investigation, 16, pp. S44-S54. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84962338775&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2016.01.007&partnerID=40&md5=06eb2087754ba51bd7df64eb74a4a228\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2016.01.007\
AFFILIATIONS: Friedrich-Alexander-University, Erlangen, Germany; \
ERNW Research GmbH, Heidelberg, Germany\
ABSTRACT: RAIDs (Redundant Array of Independent Disks) are widely used in storage systems to prevent data loss in case of hardware defects on a hard disk and to improve I/O performance. In case the RAID controller fails or in the context of a forensic investigation, the content of the RAID has to be reconstructed from the single disks or rather from disk images. Due to the variety of RAID controllers and various implementation and configuration possibilities, different parameters that are necessary for reconstruction are often unknown. This might be the case because the original configuration just has not been documented or in the forensic case, the administrator might not be cooperating and not willing to reveal the configuration. Using the original RAID system in such cases is not an option, too, because the original evidence should not be altered. We present a novel approach to automatically detect all parameters to reassemble the logical RAID volume based on block level entropy measurement and generic heuristics. We also provide a performance-optimized open source implementation of our approach that is also able to afterwards reassemble the entire logical RAID volume and to further recover single missing disks using the redundancy information as present in RAID-5. \'a9 2016 Published by Elsevier Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Data recovery;  Digital forensics;  Entropy;  RAID;  Tool\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 694\
Harichandran, V.S., Breitinger, F., Baggili, I., Marrington, A.\
56979256300;44260893600;37261105300;13410675800;\
A cyber forensics needs analysis survey: Revisiting the domain's needs a decade later\
(2016) Computers and Security, 57, pp. 1-13. Cited 30 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84948443109&doi=10.1016%2fj.cose.2015.10.007&partnerID=40&md5=3ed4333d7407db9c0cb0721bb3c31cf4\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.cose.2015.10.007\
AFFILIATIONS: Cyber Forensics Research and Education Group (UNHcFREG), Tagliatela College of Engineering, University of New Haven, West Haven, CT  06516, United States; \
Advanced Cyber Forensics Research Laboratory, Zayed University, United Arab Emirates\
ABSTRACT: The number of successful cyber attacks continues to increase, threatening financial and personal security worldwide. Cyber/digital forensics is undergoing a paradigm shift in which evidence is frequently massive in size, demands live acquisition, and may be insufficient to convict a criminal residing in another legal jurisdiction. This paper presents the findings of the first broad needs analysis survey in cyber forensics in nearly a decade, aimed at obtaining an updated consensus of professional attitudes in order to optimize resource allocation and to prioritize problems and possible solutions more efficiently. Results from the 99 respondents gave compelling testimony that the following will be necessary in the future: (1) better education/training/certification (opportunities, standardization, and skill-sets); (2) support for cloud and mobile forensics; (3) backing for and improvement of open-source tools (4) research on encryption, malware, and trail obfuscation; (5) revised laws (specific, up-to-date, and which protect user privacy); (6) better communication, especially between/with law enforcement (including establishing new frameworks to mitigate problematic communication); (7) more personnel and funding. \'a9 2015 Elsevier Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Cyber forensics;  Digital forensics;  Mobile forensics;  Needs analysis;  Open source;  Privacy;  Research;  Survey;  Tools\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 695\
Sachowski, J.\
57189273220;\
Implementing Digital Forensic Readiness: From Reactive to Proactive Process\
(2016) Implementing Digital Forensic Readiness: From Reactive to Proactive Process, pp. 1-355. Cited 14 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84967495494&doi=10.1016%2fC2015-0-00701-8&partnerID=40&md5=af47118fe6ab28770b90664c49546456\
\
DOI: 10.1016/C2015-0-00701-8\
ABSTRACT: Implementing Digital Forensic Readiness: From Reactive to Proactive Process shows information security and digital forensic professionals how to increase operational efficiencies by implementing a pro-active approach to digital forensics throughout their organization. It demonstrates how digital forensics aligns strategically within an organization's business operations and information security's program. This book illustrates how the proper collection, preservation, and presentation of digital evidence is essential for reducing potential business impact as a result of digital crimes, disputes, and incidents. It also explains how every stage in the digital evidence lifecycle impacts the integrity of data, and how to properly manage digital evidence throughout the entire investigation. Using a digital forensic readiness approach and preparedness as a business goal, the administrative, technical, and physical elements included throughout this book will enhance the relevance and credibility of digital evidence. Learn how to document the available systems and logs as potential digital evidence sources, how gap analysis can be used where digital evidence is not sufficient, and the importance of monitoring data sources in a timely manner. This book offers standard operating procedures to document how an evidence-based presentation should be made, featuring legal resources for reviewing digital evidence. Explores the training needed to ensure competent performance of the handling, collecting, and preservation of digital evidence Discusses the importance of how long term data storage must take into consideration confidentiality, integrity, and availability of digital evidence Emphasizes how incidents identified through proactive monitoring can be reviewed in terms of business risk Includes learning aids such as chapter introductions, objectives, summaries, and definitions \'a9 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 696\
Wu, X., Han, Q., Niu, X.\
56683322500;55544494100;7103278179;\
Quality Assessment for Reassembled Image Files\
(2016) IEEE Signal Processing Letters, 23 (2), art. no. 7360906, pp. 232-236. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84962265829&doi=10.1109%2fLSP.2015.2510446&partnerID=40&md5=516eff11672af38348b6d0c123b0bf59\
\
DOI: 10.1109/LSP.2015.2510446\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science and Technology, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin, 150001, China\
ABSTRACT: Reassembling fragmented image files plays a crucial role in seizing digital evidence from scattered digital image files. However, little attention has been paid to the quality assessment for reassembled image files. We propose a method to assign a reassembled image file with a score indicating its quality, defined as the amount of information that the reassembled image affords for its original image. The score ranges from 0 to 1. A higher score indicates better quality. The basic idea of the proposed method is to disintegrate the quality assessment of a reassembled image file into the calculations of the contributions of the fragments contained in the reassembled image file. For each fragment, if it is not from the original image file, it affords the least contribution. Otherwise its contribution depends on the extent to which the fragment and its neighbor fragments are concatenated correctly. We validate the performance of the proposed method with an extensive subjective study involving 588 reassembled image files. We also show that the existing quality assessments for images cannot be directly used to assess the quality of reassembled image files. \'a9 1994-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence;  digital forensics;  fragmented file reassembly;  quality assessment;  self-information\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 697\
Hegarty, R., Haggerty, J.\
56900988800;16636196100;\
SlackStick: Signature-Based File Identification for Live Digital Forensics Examinations\
(2016) Proceedings - 2015 European Intelligence and Security Informatics Conference, EISIC 2015, art. no. 7379719, pp. 24-29. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84964596073&doi=10.1109%2fEISIC.2015.28&partnerID=40&md5=dcf1571b9e6d237933f756af7a08f665\
\
DOI: 10.1109/EISIC.2015.28\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computing, Mathematics and Digital Technology, Manchester Metropolitan University, Chester Street, Manchester, M15GD, United Kingdom; \
School of Science and Technology, Nottingham Trent University, Clifton Campus, Clifton Lane, Nottingham, NG118NS, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: A digital forensics investigation may involve procedures for both live forensics and for gathering evidence from a device in a forensics laboratory. Due to the focus on capturing volatile data during a live forensics investigation, tools have been developed that are aimed at capturing specific data surrounding state information. However, there may be circumstances whereby non-volatile data analysis, such as the identification of files of interest, is also required. In such an investigation, the ability to use file-wise, or hash, signatures is precluded due to pre-processing requirements by the forensics tools. Therefore, this paper presents SlackStick, a novel automated approach run from a USB memory device for the identification of files of interest or non-volatile evidence triage using an alternative signature scheme. Moreover, the approach may be used by inexpert users during a first-response phase of an investigation. The results of the case study presented in this paper demonstrate the applicability of the approach. \'a9 2015 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  file signatures;  live investigations\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 698\
Spitters, M., Klaver, F., Koot, G., Staalduinen, M.V.\
34771888200;57188991237;55954138500;15063627100;\
Authorship Analysis on Dark Marketplace Forums\
(2016) Proceedings - 2015 European Intelligence and Security Informatics Conference, EISIC 2015, art. no. 7379716, pp. 1-8. Cited 18 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84964587033&doi=10.1109%2fEISIC.2015.47&partnerID=40&md5=857874c2a1a87b02ed7d0dae834d7874\
\
DOI: 10.1109/EISIC.2015.47\
AFFILIATIONS: TNO, The Hague, Netherlands; \
Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, Netherlands\
ABSTRACT: Anonymity networks like Tor harbor many underground markets and discussion forums dedicated to the trade of illegal goods and services. As they are gaining in popularity, the analysis of their content and users is becoming increasingly urgent for many different parties, ranging from law enforcement and security agencies to financial institutions. A major issue in cyber forensics is that anonymization techniques like Tor's onion routing have made it very difficult to trace the identities of suspects. In this paper we propose classification set-ups for two tasks related to user identification, namely alias classification and authorship attribution. We apply our techniques to data from a Tor discussion forum mainly dedicated to drug trafficking, and show that for both tasks we achieve high accuracy using a combination of character-level n-grams, stylometric features and timestamp features of the user posts. \'a9 2015 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: alias detection;  author attribution;  authorship analysis;  dark web;  machine learning;  stylometric analysis;  text mining\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 699\
Alanazi, F., Jones, A.\
57188995968;56025590600;\
The Value of Metadata in Digital Forensics\
(2016) Proceedings - 2015 European Intelligence and Security Informatics Conference, EISIC 2015, art. no. 7379751, p. 182. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84964584508&doi=10.1109%2fEISIC.2015.26&partnerID=40&md5=74502760157895fef331d9b3b932632e\
\
DOI: 10.1109/EISIC.2015.26\
AFFILIATIONS: Software Technology Research Laboratory, De Montfort University, Leicester, LE19BH, United Kingdom; \
Cyber Security Center, Center for Computing and Social Responsibilty, De Montfort University, Leicester, LE19BH, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Metadata is not visible when viewing data in a number of forms such as a word document or an image. It is, however, an important consideration in the discovery of information for use in digital forensic investigations. Different types of documents and files have a number of formats and types of metadata, which can be used to discover the properties of a file, document or network activity. Moreover, Metadata is useful in many circumstances, where it can provide collaboration evidence of between groups of people, because some of them are not aware of which type of information is stored within their document. Thus, the digital forensics investigator can access to this hidden document information. In legal cases, the identification of relevant digital evidence is crucial for supporting the case, verification and an examination existing legal argument forms. In this work, we show how to use the different formats and types of metadata in order to validate the legal argument for relevant evidence. \'a9 2015 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Evidence;  Digital Forensics;  Investigator;  legal practitioner;  Metadata\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 700\
Bryant, R., Day, E., Kennedy, I.\
56153873400;56153975900;56153988400;\
Opportunities and challenges for the future\
(2016) Policing Digital Crime, pp. 201-217. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85087691681&doi=10.4324%2f9781315601083-16&partnerID=40&md5=080f966a1f96b9f410b653c4133303eb\
\
DOI: 10.4324/9781315601083-16\
AFFILIATIONS: Department Director of Research and Knowledge Exchange, Canterbury Christ Church University, United Kingdom; \
European Cybercrime Training and Education Group (ECTEG), United Kingdom; \
Canterbury Christ Church University, United Kingdom; \
Open University, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: In this chapter we look at some of the opportunities and challenges for the policing of digital crime in the future. This includes developments in digital criminal investigation, (digital forensics and anti-forensics) and some of the problems with the use of expert witnesses in court. The challenges and opportunities often reside in the same phenomenon, for example cloud computing offers the opportunity for distributed approaches for dealing with large amounts of data from mobile phones (see below) but also provides challenges in terms of the recovery of evidence. \'a9 Robin Bryant and Sarah Bryant 2014.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 701\
Rose, P., Wang, X.\
14018450600;57211267855;\
Cantonese forensic voice comparison with higher\uc0\u8208 level features: Likelihood ratio\u8208 based validation using F\u8208 pattern and tonal F0 trajectories over a disyllabic hexaphone\
(2016) Odyssey 2016: Speaker and Language Recognition Workshop, pp. 326-333. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85073247802&doi=10.21437%2fOdyssey.2016-47&partnerID=40&md5=4b2b4f7ebb3e6097440b31db9cb8f910\
\
DOI: 10.21437/Odyssey.2016-47\
AFFILIATIONS: Australian National University Emeritus Faculty, Australia\
ABSTRACT: A pilot experiment relating to estimation of strength of evidence in forensic voice comparison is described which explores the use of higher-level features extracted over a disyllabic word as a whole, rather than over individual monosyllables as conventionally practiced. The trajectories of the first three formants and tonal F0 of the hexaphonic disyllabic Cantonese word daihyat 'first' from controlled but natural non-contemporaneous recordings of 23 male speakers are modeled with polynomials, and multivariate likelihood ratios estimated from their coefficients. Evaluation with the log likelihood ratio cost validity metric Cllr shows an optimum performance is obtained, surprisingly, with lower order polynomials, with F2 requiring a cubic fit, and F1 and F3 quadratic. Fusion of F-pattern and tonal F0 results in considerable improvement over the individual features, reducing the Cllr to ca. 0.1. The forensic potential of the daihyat data is demonstrated by fusion with two other higher-level features: the F-pattern of Cantonese /i/ and short-term F0, which reduces the Cllr still further to 0.03. Important pros and cons of higher-level features and likelihood ratios are discussed, the latter illustrated with data from Japanese, and two varieties of English in real forensic casework. \'a9 Odyssey 2016: Speaker and Language Recognition Workshop. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cantonese;  F-pattern trajectories;  Forensic voice comparison;  Higher-level features;  Likelihood ratio;  Tonal F0 trajectory\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 702\
Cusack, B., Ahokovi, T.\
8957818600;57211155411;\
Improving forensic software tool performance in detecting fraud for financial statements\
(2016) Proceedings of the 14th Australian Digital Forensics Conference, ADF 2016, pp. 17-24. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85072839095&partnerID=40&md5=b74da690a7d29bd5cc86b2750b8fb54c\
\
AFFILIATIONS: AUT University, Christ's University in Pacific, New Zealand\
ABSTRACT: The use of computer forensics is important for forensic accounting practice because most accounting information is in digital forms today. The access to evidence is increasingly more complex and in far greater volumes than in previous decades. The effective and efficient means of detecting fraud are required for the public to maintain their confidence in the reliability of accounting audit and the reputation of accounting firms. The software tools used by forensic accounting can be called into question. Many appear inadequate when faced with the complexity of fraud and there needs to be the development of automated and specialist problem-solving forensic software. In this paper we review the context of forensic accounting and the potential to develop improved support tools. The recommendation is for adopting financial ratio analysis as the basis for an improved fraud detection software. \'a9 2016 All Rights Reserved, Edith Cowan University.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Financial Ratio Analysis;  Forensic accounting;  Forensic Software Tools;  Fraud\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 703\
Meffert, C.S., Baggili, I., Breitinger, F.\
57190738272;37261105300;44260893600;\
Deleting collected digital evidence by exploiting a widely adopted hardware write blocker\
(2016) DFRWS 2016 USA - Proceedings of the 16th Annual USA Digital Forensics Research Conference, pp. S87-S96. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068725892&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2016.04.004&partnerID=40&md5=10f6ccc9de6b07dac1a8fd19a6507151\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2016.04.004\
AFFILIATIONS: Cyber Forensics Research and Education Group, Tagliatela College of Engineering, ECECS, University of New Haven, 300 Boston Post Rd., West Haven, CT  06516, United States\
ABSTRACT: In this primary work we call for the importance of integrating security testing into the process of testing digital forensic tools. We postulate that digital forensic tools are increasing in features (such as network imaging), becoming networkable, and are being proposed as forensic cloud services. This raises the need for testing the security of these tools, especially since digital evidence integrity is of paramount importance. At the time of conducting this work, little to no published anti-forensic research had focused on attacks against the forensic tools/process. We used the TD3, a popular, validated, touch screen disk duplicator and hardware write blocker with networking capabilities and designed an attack that corrupted the integrity of the destination drive (drive with the duplicated evidence) without the user's knowledge. By also modifying and repackaging the firmware update, we illustrated that a potential adversary is capable of leveraging a phishing attack scenario in order to fake digital forensic practitioners into updating the device with a malicious operating system. The same attack scenario may also be practiced by a disgruntled insider. The results also raise the question of whether security standards should be drafted and adopted by digital forensic tool makers. \'a9 2016 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Digital forensic tool testing;  Digital forensics;  Frameworks;  Gismo;  Hardware write blocker;  NIST;  Root access;  TD3;  Vulnerability\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 704\
Neuner, S., Voyiatzis, A.G., Schmiedecker, M., Brunthaler, S., Katzenbeisser, S., Weippl, E.R.\
55635226000;6506519589;35849078200;35213111200;22333918500;8925433900;\
Time is on my side: Steganography in filesystem metadata\
(2016) DFRWS 2016 USA - Proceedings of the 16th Annual USA Digital Forensics Research Conference, pp. S76-S86. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068713304&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2016.04.010&partnerID=40&md5=c6b81b8a571f3793a32c0c1870c880a9\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2016.04.010\
AFFILIATIONS: SBA Research, Vienna, Austria; \
Technische Universit\'e4t Darmstadt, Germany\
ABSTRACT: We propose and explore the applicability of file timestamps as a steganographic channel. We identify an information gap between storage and usage of timestamps in modern operating systems that use high-precision timers. Building on this, we describe a layered design of a steganographic system that offers stealthiness, robustness, and wide applicability. The proposed design is evaluated through theoretical, evidence-based, and experimental analysis for the case of NTFS using datasets comprising millions of files. We report a proof-of-concept implementation and confirm that the embedded information is indistinguishable from that of a normal filesystem use. Finally, we discuss the digital forensics analysis implications of this new information-hiding technique. \'a9 2016 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Data hiding;  Digital forensics;  File system forensics;  Real-world data corpus;  Steganography;  Storage forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 705 **SELECTED** SID: 39\
Lee, K., Hwang, H., Kim, K., Noh, B.\
57190737870;57190743242;32367610600;6603862486;\
Robust bootstrapping memory analysis against anti-forensics\
(2016) DFRWS 2016 USA - Proceedings of the 16th Annual USA Digital Forensics Research Conference, pp. S23-S32. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068705389&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2016.04.009&partnerID=40&md5=2ad9e1196c6cecce49657b822736bf76\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2016.04.009\
AFFILIATIONS: System Security Research Center, Chonnam National University, Gwangju, South Korea; \
Affiliated Institute of ETRI, Daejeon, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Memory analysis is increasingly used to collect digital evidence in incident response. With the fast growth in memory analysis, however, anti-forensic techniques appear to prevent it from performing the bootstrapping steps \'97 operating system (OS) fingerprinting, Directory Table Base (DTB) identification, and obtaining kernel objects. Although most published research works try to solve anti forensics, they deal only with one element among the three steps. Thus, collapse in any of the three steps using the suggested robust algorithms leads to failure in the memory analysis. In this paper, we evaluate the latest memory forensic tools against anti-forensics. Then, we suggest a novel robust algorithm that guarantees the bootstrapping analysis steps. It uses only one kernel data structure called KiInitialPCR, which is a kernel global variable based on the kernel processor control region (KPCR) structure and has many fields with tolerance to mutation. We characterize the robust fields of the KPCR structure to use them for OS fingerprinting, DTB identification, and obtaining kernel objects. Then, we implement the KiInitialPCR-based analysis system. Therefore, we can analyze the compromised memory in spite of the interference of anti-forensics. \'a9 2016 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Memory analysis;  Memory forensics;  OS fingerprinting;  Robust analysis;  Windows\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 706\
Conlan, K., Baggili, I., Breitinger, F.\
57190744489;37261105300;44260893600;\
Anti-forensics: Furthering digital forensic science through a new extended, granular taxonomy\
(2016) DFRWS 2016 USA - Proceedings of the 16th Annual USA Digital Forensics Research Conference, pp. S66-S75. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068682381&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2016.04.006&partnerID=40&md5=cf24c09681eb6fcbeeac3c0f3a345807\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2016.04.006\
AFFILIATIONS: Cyber Forensics Research and Education Group, Tagliatela College of Engineering, ECECS, University of New Haven, 300 Boston Post Rd., West Haven, CT  06516, United States\
ABSTRACT: Anti-forensic tools, techniques and methods are becoming a formidable obstacle for the digital forensic community. Thus, new research initiatives and strategies must be formulated to address this growing problem. In this work we first collect and categorize 308 anti-digital forensic tools to survey the field. We then devise an extended anti-forensic taxonomy to the one proposed by Rogers (2006) in order to create a more comprehensive taxonomy and facilitate linguistic standardization. Our work also takes into consideration anti-forensic activity which utilizes tools that were not originally designed for anti-forensic purposes, but can still be used with malicious intent. This category was labeled as Possible indications of anti-forensic activity, as certain software, scenarios, and digital artifacts could indicate anti-forensic activity on a system. We also publicly share our data sets, which includes categorical data on 308 collected anti-forensic tools, as well as 2780 unique hash values related to the installation files of 191 publicly available anti-forensic tools. As part of our analysis, the collected hash set was ran against the National Institute of Standards and Technology's 2016 National Software Reference Library, and only 423 matches were found out of the 2780 hashes. Our findings indicate a need for future endeavors in creating and maintaining exhaustive anti-forensic hash data sets. \'a9 2016 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-digital forensics;  Anti-forensics;  Anti-forensics taxonomy;  Categorical data set;  Computer crime;  Digital forensics;  Formalizing digital forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 707\
DFRWS 2016 USA - Proceedings of the 16th Annual USA Digital Forensics Research Conference\
(2016) DFRWS 2016 USA - Proceedings of the 16th Annual USA Digital Forensics Research Conference, 154 p. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068676635&partnerID=40&md5=7c87d5e2cc882b54bdc1542e547a3176\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 15 papers. The topics discussed include: recovery method of deleted records and tables from ESE database; CuFA: a more formal definition for digital forensic artifacts; InVEST: intelligent visual email search and triage; PeekaTorrent: leveraging p2p hash values for digital forensics; recovery of heavily fragmented JPEG files; anti-forensics: furthering digital forensic science through a new extended, granular taxonomy; and BinGold: towards robust binary analysis by extracting the semantics of binary code as semantic flow graphs (SFGs).\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 708\
Zoubek, C., Seufert, S., Dewald, A.\
57148617400;6603394178;36096530300;\
Generic RAID reassembly using block-level entropy\
(2016) DFRWS 2016 EU - Proceedings of the 3rd Annual DFRWS Europe, pp. S44-S54. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068654318&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2016.01.007&partnerID=40&md5=ceb80ab99950a87fa9dbfcc07d427d9b\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2016.01.007\
AFFILIATIONS: Friedrich-Alexander-University, Erlangen, Germany; \
ERNW Research GmbH, Heidelberg, Germany\
ABSTRACT: RAIDs (Redundant Array of Independent Disks) are widely used in storage systems to prevent data loss in case of hardware defects on a hard disk and to improve I/O performance. In case the RAID controller fails or in the context of a forensic investigation, the content of the RAID has to be reconstructed from the single disks or rather from disk images. Due to the variety of RAID controllers and various implementation and configuration possibilities, different parameters that are necessary for reconstruction are often unknown. This might be the case because the original configuration just has not been documented or in the forensic case, the administrator might not be cooperating and not willing to reveal the configuration. Using the original RAID system in such cases is not an option, too, because the original evidence should not be altered. We present a novel approach to automatically detect all parameters to reassemble the logical RAID volume based on block level entropy measurement and generic heuristics. We also provide a performance-optimized open source implementation of our approach that is also able to afterwards reassemble the entire logical RAID volume and to further recover single missing disks using the redundancy information as present in RAID-5. \'a9 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Data recovery;  Digital forensics;  Entropy;  RAID;  Tool\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 709\
Tang, Y., Fang, J., Chow, K.P., Yiu, S.M., Xu, J., Feng, B., Li, Q., Han, Q.\
55566607900;36132767400;7202180751;7003282240;57196732736;57208700416;7405861555;55544494100;\
Recovery of heavily fragmented JPEG files\
(2016) DFRWS 2016 USA - Proceedings of the 16th Annual USA Digital Forensics Research Conference, pp. S108-S117. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068651412&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2016.04.016&partnerID=40&md5=8aaecbc1964cbd2affc1bc8c4404d8b7\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2016.04.016\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Computer Science, University of Hong Kong, China; \
Dept. of Optoelectronic Engineering, Jinan University, China; \
Center for Social Computing and Information Retrieval, Harbin Institute of Technology, China; \
Department of Computer Science, Stony Brook University, United States; \
School of Computer Science and Technology, Harbin Institute of Technology, China\
ABSTRACT: File carving from damaged file system plays an important role in file recovery for identifying evidence in digital forensics. In this paper, we focus on JPEG file carving, with an emphasis on heavily fragmented cases. The difficulty lies on how to order fragmented pieces into a complete picture without sufficient decoding information. We provide a framework to tackle this problem, which consists of the following key components: (i) a new similarity metric (CED) to evaluate if two data blocks are consecutive in the same JPEG file and a fragmentation point detection algorithm based on CED; and (ii) an overall recovery algorithm to reconstruct the JPEG file from fragmented pieces. The proposed framework was verified on an image dump from a SD card of a digital camera. The results were compared to Adroit Photo Forensic (APF), a commonly used photo carving tool. In our experiments, our tool can automatically recover 97% fragmented JPEG files (versus 79% by APF). \'a9 2016 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Color similarity;  Fragmentation point;  Fragmented JPEG file;  JPEG file carving;  Photo forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 710\
Wagner, J., Rasin, A., Grier, J.\
56768652900;9738559600;45561300400;\
Database image content explorer: Carving data that does not officially exist\
(2016) DFRWS 2016 USA - Proceedings of the 16th Annual USA Digital Forensics Research Conference, pp. S97-S107. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85052390332&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2016.04.015&partnerID=40&md5=251b87a4dee667d125d75169fbf1470c\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2016.04.015\
AFFILIATIONS: DePaul University, Chicago, IL, United States; \
Grier Forensics, United States\
ABSTRACT: When a file is deleted, the storage it occupies is de-allocated but the contents of the file are not erased. An extensive selection of file carving tools and techniques is available to forensic analysts - and yet existing file carving techniques cannot recover database storage because all database storage engines use proprietary and unique storage format. Database systems are widely used to store and process data - both on a large scale (e.g., enterprise networks) and for personal use (e.g., SQLite in mobile devices or Firefox). For some databases, users can purchase specialized recovery tools capable of discovering valid rows in storage and yet there are no tools that can recover deleted rows or make analysts aware of the \'93unseen\'94 database content. Deletion is just one of the many operations that create de-allocated data in database storage. We use our Database Image Content Explorer tool, based on a universal database storage model, to recover a variety of phantom data: a) data that was actually deleted by a user, b) data that is marked as deleted, but was never explicitly deleted by any user and c) data that is not marked as deleted and had been de-allocated without anyone's knowledge. Data persists in active database tables, in memory, in auxiliary structures or in discarded pages. Strikingly, our tool can even recover data from inserts that were canceled, and thus never officially existed in a data table, which may be of immeasurable value to investigation of financial crimes. In this paper, we describe many recoverable database storage artifacts, investigate survival of data and empirically demonstrate across different databases what our universal, multi-database tool can recover. \'a9 2016 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Data recovery;  Database forensics;  File carving;  Memory analysis;  Stochastic analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 711\
Yu, J., Li, E., Craver, S.\
57200565115;55423676000;57204997222;\
Ambiguity attack on the integrity of a genuine picture by producing another picture immune to generic digital forensic test\
(2016) IS and T International Symposium on Electronic Imaging Science and Technology, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85046056698&doi=10.2352%2fISSN.2470-1173.2016.8.MWSF-066&partnerID=40&md5=bd9ecc06b8fce4a03e795f43958f618e\
\
DOI: 10.2352/ISSN.2470-1173.2016.8.MWSF-066\
AFFILIATIONS: Marvell Semiconductor, Inc, Marlborough, MA, United States; \
Eastern Kentucky University, Richmond, KY, United States; \
Binghamton University, Binghamton, NY, United States\
ABSTRACT: Conventional image forgery relies heavily on various digital image processing techniques, which will inevitably introduce artifacts and inconsistency. For the goal of raising suspicion over the integrity of a genuine picture P, we proposed an ambiguity attack not employing any digital image processing techniques. It works by deliberately producing a second picture Pamb containing a target ROI(Region-of-Interest) that highly resembles the ROI in P. Except for the target ROI, the rest of the contents might be dramatically different between P and Pamb, so that Pamb tells a rather different story from P. Since Pamb is not involved with any forgery in digital domain, Pamb shall pass generic digital image forensic tests. Furthermore, several measures can be taken to make the ROI in Pamb looks more 'original' than its counterpart in P, which induces people to believe Pamb is genuine and P is no more than a forgery derived from Pamb instead. The ambiguity created between P and Pamb is hard to resolve due to three reasons. Firstly, no digital forensic tool shall identify any artifacts or inconsistency in Pamb; secondly, the fact of being able to pass all digital forensic tests still does not assure P is genuine; lastly, determine the chronological order of P and Pamb is very hard for general cases. \'a9 2016 Society for Imaging Science and Technology.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 712\
Voronin, V.V., Marchuk, V.I., Semenishchev, E.A., Makov, S.V., Creutzburg, R.\
55802371401;37066339700;56572834900;56572944600;6602924425;\
Digital inpainting with applications to forensic image processing\
(2016) IS and T International Symposium on Electronic Imaging Science and Technology, . Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85046056229&doi=10.2352%2fISSN.2470-1173.2016.7MOBMU-289&partnerID=40&md5=86c5bb664141f8b1b2a8007be00f02c0\
\
DOI: 10.2352/ISSN.2470-1173.2016.7MOBMU-289\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Radio- Electronics Systems, Don State Technical University, Gagarina 1, Rostov on Don, Russian Federation; \
Dept. of Informatics and Media, Fachhochschule Brandenburg, D-Brandenburg, Germany\
ABSTRACT: With the development of multimedia processing and applications, multiple types of media security and forensic have been broadly taken into consideration. The media data includes audio, video, graphic, image and etc. There are three main applications of the forensic image processing: hiding data, tampering detection and recovering of the digital information. Some artifacts and lost details on the image or video could lead to an erroneous interpretation. The objective of this paper is to ensure the production of quality forensic imagery using digital inpainting. Inpanting in images and videos aims at filling gaps (holes) occur due to instrumentation error, losses of image data during transmission. The holes may correspond to missing parts or removed objects from the scenes (logos, text, etc.). This paper includes brief descriptions of advantages, disadvantages, and potential of inpainting with applications to the forensic image processing. We present an image inpainting method based on the texture and structure propagation. It is shown that this approach allows restoring a fingerprint, missing blocks and removing a text from the scenes. Several examples considered in this paper show the effectiveness of the proposed approach for large objects removal as well as recovery of small regions on several test images and videos. \'a9 2016 Society for Imaging Science and Technology.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 713\
Li, J., Bajramovic, E., Gao, Y., Parekh, M.\
35791961900;57191837994;57226044069;57213308200;\
Graded security forensics readiness of SCADA systems\
(2016) Lecture Notes in Informatics (LNI), Proceedings - Series of the Gesellschaft fur Informatik (GI), P-259, pp. 581-592. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85031295459&partnerID=40&md5=e352230bdd71bf6a68d16dca769acdfa\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Tsinghua University, Institute of Nuclear and New Energy Technology, Beijing, China; \
Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-Nuremberg, Informatics 1 Department, Erlangen, Germany; \
Otto-von-Guericke University Magdeburg, Group Multimedia and Security, Magdeburg, Germany\
ABSTRACT: Security event logs are major indicators for the timely discovery of cyberattacks and during security incident examinations. Collection of sufficient logs of events associated with security incident time is critical for effective investigation. SCADA systems logging capabilities are intended for identifying and detecting process disruptions, not security incidents, and are frequently not suitable for digital forensic investigation [Ta13]. Nevertheless, logs provide tremendous support during digital forensics investigations as they consist of vast amounts of information, e.g. step-by-step events that occurred in a system in question, including time stamping [AIJ12]. In addition, logging is a major element of forensic readiness. Numerous tools and methods contribute to log monitoring, e.g. evaluating log records and correlating them through various systems. This can assist in incident handling, identifying policy violations, auditing, and other efforts. Within the general context described above and the more specific graded security approach of IEC 62443-x-x, this paper will identify cybersecurity specific SCADA component requirements, preconditions for subsequent forensic investigations, collecting potential digital evidence, graded forensic-related security controls, and forensic readiness during SCADA lifecycle phases.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Asset management;  Cybersecurity;  Digital forensics investigation;  Forensic readiness;  Logging;  Time stamping\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 714\
Battistoni, R., Di Pietro, R., Lombardi, F.\
55919993500;57216385914;13605771800;\
CURE\'97Towards enforcing a reliable timeline for cloud forensics: Model, architecture, and experiments\
(2016) Computer Communications, 91-92, pp. 29-43. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85027886024&doi=10.1016%2fj.comcom.2016.03.024&partnerID=40&md5=81b28bf20af6553746690d058f0c75b8\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.comcom.2016.03.024\
AFFILIATIONS: Sapienza University of Rome, Dipartimento di Informatica, via Salaria 113, Roma, Italy; \
Cybersecurity Research Department, Nokia Bell Labs, Paris, France; \
Universit\'e0 di Padova, Dipartimento di Matematica, via Trieste 63, Padova, Italy; \
IAC-CNR, via dei Taurini, 19, Roma, 00185, Italy; \
Roma Tre University, Maths and Physics Department, Roma, Italy\
ABSTRACT: A malicious alteration of system-provided timeline can negatively affect the reliability of computer forensics. Indeed, detecting such changes and possibly reconstructing the correct timeline of events is of paramount importance for court admissibility and logical coherence of collected evidence. However, reconstructing the correct timeline for a set of network nodes can be difficult since an adversary has a wealth of opportunities to disrupt the timeline and to generate a fake one. This aspect is exacerbated in cloud computing, where host and guest machine-time can be manipulated in various ways by an adversary. Therefore, it is important to guarantee the integrity of the timeline of events for cloud host and guest nodes, or at least to ensure that timeline alterations do not go undetected. This paper provides several contributions. First, we survey the issues related to cloud machine-time reliability. Then, we introduce a novel architecture (CURE) aimed at providing timeline resilience to cloud nodes. Further, we implement the proposed framework and extensively test it on both a simulated environment and on a real cloud. We evaluate and discuss collected results showing the effectiveness of our proposal. \'a9 2016\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud computing;  Digital forensics;  Experimental test-beds and research platforms;  Measurement and simulation;  Timeline validation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 715\
Rota, P., Sangineto, E., Conotter, V., Pramerdorfer, C.\
55421355300;6506128346;24075511900;55659153300;\
Bad teacher or unruly student: Can deep learning say something in Image Forensics analysis?\
(2016) Proceedings - International Conference on Pattern Recognition, 0, art. no. 7900012, pp. 2503-2508. Cited 15 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85019117516&doi=10.1109%2fICPR.2016.7900012&partnerID=40&md5=903e9db24730407376bfb7da788e1db8\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICPR.2016.7900012\
AFFILIATIONS: CVL, Vienna University of Technology (Austria), Austria; \
DISI, University of Trento (Italy), Italy; \
SocialIT, Trento, Italy\
ABSTRACT: The pervasive availability of the Internet, coupled with the development of increasingly powerful technologies, has led digital images to be the primary source of visual information in nowadays society. However, their reliability as a true representation of reality cannot be taken for granted, due to the affordable powerful graphics editing softwares that can easily alter the original content, leaving no visual trace of any modification on the image making them potentially dangerous. This motivates developing technological solutions able to detect media manipulations without a prior knowledge or extra information regarding the given image. At the same time, the huge amount of available data has also led to tremendous advances of data-hungry learning models, which have already demonstrated in last few years to be successful in image classification. In this work we propose a deep learning approach for tampered image classification. To our best knowledge, this the first attempt to use the deep learning paradigm in an image forensic scenario. In particular, we propose a new blind deep learning approach based on Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) able to learn invisible discriminative artifacts from manipulated images that can be exploited to automatically discriminate between forged and authentic images. The proposed approach not only detects forged images but it can be extended to localize the tampered regions within the image. This method outperforms the state-of-the-art in terms of accuracy on CASIA TIDE v2.0 dataset. The capability of automatically crafting discriminant features can lead to surprising results. For instance, detecting image compression filters used to create the dataset. This argument is also discussed within this paper. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 716\
Rajput, S.K., Parthipan, V.\
57193999020;46161581400;\
Tampering detection for JPEG images without preserving using fourier domain\
(2016) Research Journal of Pharmaceutical, Biological and Chemical Sciences, 7, pp. 216-221. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85018205455&partnerID=40&md5=c9c2013041a3be91d5cfda82ce8fcd96\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science Engineering, Saveetha School of Engineering, Saveetha University, Tamil Nadu, India\
ABSTRACT: The wide availability of high-quality image editing software, general users can now easily edit or enhance digital image content in many ways. However, these easy-to-use image editing techniques also pose new challenges in digital forensics. Many passive or nonintrusive methods have been developed for detecting tampering in digital images. Some methods rely on detecting traces resulting from image acquisition or tampering operations, such as re sampling, color filter array interpolation, camera sensor noise pattern, and scanner sensor noise. Other methods attempt to analyze the inconsistencies in lighting direction or statistical properties of natural images. Unfortunately, most existing methods are effective only for uncompressed raw images and are very vulnerable to JPEG compression. Since the JPEG image format has now been adopted in digital cameras and image processing software, it is vital to account for compression issues in tampering detection methods. Tampering in JPEG images often involves recompression and thus changes the original compression characteristics. Most existing tampering detection methods for JPEG images attempt to detect inconsistency in compression characteristics. Some rely on detecting inconsistency of JPEG quantization tables. Others use the compression artifacts, either in spatial or frequency domain, as an inherent signature for JPEG images. Although these approaches adopt different compression characteristics, different methods have their restrictions and drawbacks. In the following subsection, we briefly summarize these approaches and their restrictions.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Detection;  Fourier domain;  Jpeg\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 717\
Mansor, H., Markantonakis, K., Akram, R.N., Mayes, K., Gurulian, I.\
56263155900;8379250300;35483173100;8379250500;57189660709;\
Log your car: The non-invasive vehicle forensics\
(2016) Proceedings - 15th IEEE International Conference on Trust, Security and Privacy in Computing and Communications, 10th IEEE International Conference on Big Data Science and Engineering and 14th IEEE International Symposium on Parallel and Distributed Processing with Applications, IEEE TrustCom/BigDataSE/ISPA 2016, art. no. 7847047, pp. 974-982. Cited 20 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85015248032&doi=10.1109%2fTrustCom.2016.0164&partnerID=40&md5=2369cc0f05c3903c7f74b23c4f17bc3b\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TrustCom.2016.0164\
AFFILIATIONS: Information Security Group, Smart Card Centre, Royal Holloway, University of London, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics is becoming an important feature for many embedded devices. In automotive systems, digital forensics involves multiple electronic control units (ECUs) used to support the connected and intelligent vehicle's technology. Digital evidence from these ECUs can be used in forensics investigation and analysis. Such a mechanism can potentially facilitate crash investigation, insurance claims and crime investigation. Issues related to forensics include the authenticity, integrity and privacy of the data. In this paper, the security of the forensic process and data in automotive systems is analysed. We propose an efficient, secure, privacy-preserving and reliable mechanism to provide a forensics data collection and storage process. A diagnostic application for smart phones, DiaLOG, is incorporated in the proposed process that uses a secure protocol to communicate the collected forensic data to a secure cloud storage. The proposed protocol for communicating forensic data is implemented to measure performance results and formally analysed using Scyther and CasperFDR with no known attack found. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 718\
Flores, D.A., Qazi, F., Jhumka, A.\
55440895500;57193605014;6602999213;\
Bring your own disclosure: Analysing BYOD threats to corporate information\
(2016) Proceedings - 15th IEEE International Conference on Trust, Security and Privacy in Computing and Communications, 10th IEEE International Conference on Big Data Science and Engineering and 14th IEEE International Symposium on Parallel and Distributed Processing with Applications, IEEE TrustCom/BigDataSE/ISPA 2016, art. no. 7847052, pp. 1008-1015. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85015238627&doi=10.1109%2fTrustCom.2016.0169&partnerID=40&md5=abb93fdb7b5b3a06fecf2c579a2647e7\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TrustCom.2016.0169\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Warwick, Department of Computer Science, Coventry, United Kingdom; \
Escuela Polit\'e9cnica Nacional, Departmento de Inform\'e1tica y Ciencias de la Computacion (DICC), Quito, Ecuador\
ABSTRACT: Mobile device consumerisation has introduced the Bring-Your-Own-Device (BYOD) trend to the organisational context, allowing employees to work using their personal devices. However, as personal mobile devices are perceived as less secure than those provided by the organisation, BYOD has risen security concerns about corporate information being accessed by mobile devices from inside and outside the corporate perimeter. Moreover, this uncontrolled mobile device activity makes it difficult to differentiate external (outsider) malicious activity from reckless/naive employee (insider) behaviour, preventing effective correlation of unauthorised actions with the perpetrators. In this paper, a STRIDE-based BYOD Threat Model is proposed to analyse BYOD Threat Interactions from inside and outside the corporate perimeter. Our research contributes to a better understanding and awareness about the influence of BYOD Threats on disclosure and contamination of corporate information, encouraging future work in the field of BYOD security and digital forensics in order to protect information and manage an increasing number of evidence sources. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Attack;  BYOD;  Contamination;  Disclosure;  Forensics;  Insider;  Outsider;  STRIDE;  Threat model\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 719\
Kacem, T., Wijesekera, D., Costa, P., Barreto, A.\
55165375400;6603774480;49961159200;56443608800;\
An ADS-B intrusion detection system\
(2016) Proceedings - 15th IEEE International Conference on Trust, Security and Privacy in Computing and Communications, 10th IEEE International Conference on Big Data Science and Engineering and 14th IEEE International Symposium on Parallel and Distributed Processing with Applications, IEEE TrustCom/BigDataSE/ISPA 2016, art. no. 7846991, pp. 544-551. Cited 14 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85015219460&doi=10.1109%2fTrustCom.2016.0108&partnerID=40&md5=c9f88ba6cc4955693fac947c94485042\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TrustCom.2016.0108\
AFFILIATIONS: Radio and Radar Engineering Laboratory, Volgenau School of Engineering, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA  22030-4444, United States\
ABSTRACT: Advances in radio and RADAR research have considerably contributed to the emergence of novel air traffic control (ATC) protocols. In particular, Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast (ADS-B) has proven to be a viable option that could complement and extend current technologies. Despite the benefits offered by ADS-B, such as more precise location, easier deployment, and lower costs, cyber-security issues have arisen due to the open, clear-text broadcasting of ADS-B messages making it vulnerable to many attacks. In this paper, we propose an intrusion detection system (IDS) specifically designed to detect malicious or questionable ADS-B messages. We leverage prior work on cyber-defense mechanisms against ADS-B attacks and physical aspects of aircraft motion to classify received ADS-B traffic as potential attacks and retain digital artifacts that might support post-attack forensic investigations. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 720\
Dong, W., Wang, J.\
57193615537;57193617886;\
JPEG compression forensics against resizing\
(2016) Proceedings - 15th IEEE International Conference on Trust, Security and Privacy in Computing and Communications, 10th IEEE International Conference on Big Data Science and Engineering and 14th IEEE International Symposium on Parallel and Distributed Processing with Applications, IEEE TrustCom/BigDataSE/ISPA 2016, art. no. 7847051, pp. 1001-1007. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85015175465&doi=10.1109%2fTrustCom.2016.0168&partnerID=40&md5=fc7f2d33a544f6dc3ed799213a0dfff5\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TrustCom.2016.0168\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information Science and Engineering, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200433, China\
ABSTRACT: In digital image forensics, identifying whether an image has been JPEG compressed is an important issue. Although the existing methods detect JPEG compression with high accuracy, their performance is degraded by resizing, which is usually used in image tampering. In this paper, a new method based on detecting block artifacts left by JPEG compression is proposed. The proposed method exposes the block artifacts via a simple spatial filter and Gaussian transformation. With some steps of feature extraction, it can be used for JPEG compression forensics. The proposed method works on any block size, which means that it can work without knowing the block size in advance. Therefore, it can be used to detect JPEG compression against resizing, which only changes the block size, but cannot destroy the block artifacts. Extensive experiments prove that the proposed method can detect JPEG compression in the presence of resizing, while it achieves a good performance as previous methods when no resizing is present. \'a9 2016 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Image forensics;  JPEG compression;  Resizing\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 721\
Geng, T., Mathies, R.A.\
55207546600;7103123753;\
Forensic typing of single cells using droplet microfluidics\
(2016) Microfluidic Methods for Molecular Biology, pp. 71-94. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85013428268&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-30019-1_4&partnerID=40&md5=9259bb4aa8f7562bdccd56854cc2614f\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-30019-1_4\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, CA  94720, United States; \
Environmental Molecular Sciences Laboratory, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, 902 Battelle Blvd, Richland, WA  99354, United States; \
Department of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley, CA  94720, United States\
ABSTRACT: Short tandem repeat (STR) typing based on polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a powerful tool for forensic identification. However, it is challenging to analyze low-quantity and low-quality evidence samples comprising mixture of cells and/or DNA from multiple contributors. Herein we present a droplet microfluidicsbased technology for single-cell STR typing with high sensitivity, throughput, and fidelity. In this approach, single cells are initially compartmentalized within nanoliter agarose droplets using a microfluidic droplet generator. The transformation of the agarose into microgels enables the diffusion of cell lytic reagents into the droplets for single-cell genomic DNA extraction, while PCR inhibitors are washed away. Following the introduction of PCR components, massively parallel multiplex droplet PCR is performed in oil emulsions to transfer the STR information from an individual cell onto the co-encapsulated primer-functionalized bead. The ampliconcarrying beads are then statistically diluted and reamplified in a secondary PCR. The resulting transfer of STR products to free solution facilitates the detection by conventional capillary electrophoresis (CE) fragment size analysis. This technology is effective in preserving single-genome integrity when analyzing diverse cellular materials yet insensitive to background DNA contamination. Target cells are successfully identified from heterogeneous cell populations with a high (up to 10:1) background, mixtures of cells and cell-free DNA, and samples contaminated with high concentrations of PCR inhibitors. \'a9 Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2016.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital droplet PCR;  Droplet microfluidics;  Forensics;  PCR inhibition;  Short tandem repeat (STR) typing;  Single-cell analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 722\
Alherbawi, N., Shukur, Z., Sulaiman, R.\
57193209631;8230989000;23391262600;\
A survey on data carving in digital forensic\
(2016) Asian Journal of Information Technology, 15 (24), pp. 5137-5144. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85011634595&partnerID=40&md5=3705ae8575d58af76d7ac630a5873079\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Information Science and Technology, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Bangi, Selangor, 43600, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: Data carving is a very important topic in digital investigation and computer forensic. And for that reason researches are needed to focus on improving data carving techniques to enable digital investigators to retrieve important data and evidences from damaged or corrupted data resources. This study is the result of a systematic literature review which answer three main questions in data carving filed. The Results fall into four main directions. First it shows the need of realistic data sets for tools testing. Secondly, it points to the need of object validation under fragmented data storage. Thirdly, investigating content based validation and its benefits in digital investigation field. Finally, it points to a new direction in data carving such as in-place data carving, bulk extractor and using semantic validation in data carving. Finally, a set of potential areas of interest are pointed out that needs further research and investigation. \'a9 Medwell Journals, 2016.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Carving validation;  Data carving;  Digital forensics;  Realistic;  Systematic\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 723\
Wang, J., Tang, Z., Shao, W., Jin, X.\
56320038200;55570666400;57194443446;15519158300;\
A formal model of events reconstruction for cloud forensics\
(2016) RISTI - Revista Iberica de Sistemas e Tecnologias de Informacao, 2016 (E11), pp. 45-55. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85011116090&partnerID=40&md5=a27c4dc6ff6c727cfff89c8675dee307\
\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science and Technology, Nanjing University of Science and Technology, Nanjing, 210094, China; \
Jiangsu Post and Telecommunications Planning and Designing Institute CO. LTD, Nanjing, 210019, China; \
College of Computer, Nanjing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Nanjing, 210023, China\
ABSTRACT: Cloud computing is increasingly gaining attention and rising in in popularity. However, in the early development of cloud computing, cloud forensics lacks a standard practice, which in turn allows a criminal activity to go undetected. To alleviate this situation, this paper proposes a formal model based on timed automata (TA) for reconstructing the system under investigation. Firstly, we briefly illustrate the concept of trusted cloud digital forensics and TA. We then describe the behavior process model and processes composition model in the cloud environment using TA in detail. Finally, a process refinement algorithm is used to find the digital evidence by detecting the illegal actions or incorrect interaction during the composition.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud Forensics;  Digital Evidence;  Process Model;  Timed Automata\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 724\
Sameer, V.U., Sugumaran, S., Naskar, R.\
56349741600;57214023431;53866980700;\
Digital forensic source camera identification with efficient feature selection using filter, wrapper and hybrid approaches\
(2016) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 10063 LNCS, pp. 409-425. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85005950637&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-49806-5_22&partnerID=40&md5=467538e038eaeb345e8597bc10d0c2b2\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-49806-5_22\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, National Institute of Technology, Rourkela, Orissa  769008, India\
ABSTRACT: Digital Forensics is the branch of science dealing with investigation of evidences recovered from digital devices, to safeguard against rapidly increasing cyber crimes in today\'92s digital world. The Source Camera Identification (SCI) problem is to map an image under question correctly to its source device. Following a Digital Forensic approach, the source of an image is detected by post\'96priori investigation of traces left behind in the image, by the camera. Such traces are generated due to the post\'96processing operations an image undergoes inside a digital camera, after being captured. In this paper, we model the SCI problem as a machine learning classification problem and focus on the most crucial component of a learning model, i.e. feature selection. We propose three different techniques for feature selection: Filter based approach, Wrapper based approach using Genetic Algorithm (GA), and also a hybrid approach with both Filter and Wrapper methods combined together. We investigate the source detection accuracy that each technique succeeds to achieve. Our experimental results suggest that the proposed methods produced a much compact feature set, hence considerably improve the source detection accuracy and minimize the training time of the learning model, as compared to the state\'96of\'96the\'96art. \'a9 Springer International Publishing AG 2016.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Classification;  Cybercrime;  Digital forensics;  Feature extraction;  Feature selection;  Genetic Algorithm;  Source camera identification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 725\
Kingra, S., Aggarwal, N., Singh, R.D.\
57192255022;36875216400;56488829400;\
Video inter-frame forgery detection: A survey\
(2016) Indian Journal of Science and Technology, 9 (44), art. no. 105142, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85002050658&doi=10.17485%2fijst%2f2016%2fv9i44%2f105142&partnerID=40&md5=96a04d7dafcd23ccdc0b201dc05674e1\
\
DOI: 10.17485/ijst/2016/v9i44/105142\
AFFILIATIONS: UIET, Panjab University, Chandigarh, Punjab, 160014, India\
ABSTRACT: Objectives: This paper summarizes all the proposed techniques involved in digital video inter-frame forgery detection for MPEG-1, 2, 4 and H.264/AVC encoded videos. Methods/Statistical Analysis: Double compression detection techniques are classified here on the basis of footprints analyzed during detection. The detection methods designed for videos that use fixed GOP structure for first and any of the subsequent compression are different from the videos that use different GOP structure. Video inter-frame forgery detection techniques are then analyzed on the basis of type of forgery they detect and the type of codec used for video encoding. Findings: Digital videos often provide forensic evidence in legal, medical and surveillance applications but are more prone to inter-frame forgeries, which are not only easy to perform but are equally difficult to detect as well. The analysis of the literature ascertained that majority of the proposed techniques are dependent on the number of frames tampered and video codec used to encode the videos. Among these proposed techniques, double MPEG compression was best detected using the technique which utilizes Benford's law and was proposed by Chen and Shi on MPEG-1 and MPEG-2 encoded videos. On the other hand, Wang et al. gave sound results for all kinds of inter-frame forgeries on MPEG-2 encoded videos by utilizing the measure of optical flow consistency. Since very few authors focussed on forgery detection in MPEG-4 encoded videos and thereby such techniques have not been discussed in many survey papers. Moreover, digital cameras especially surveillance cameras which generate massive amount of videos these days have built-in MPEG-4 codec because it offers a better compression rate. Application/Improvements: Video forensics domain, therefore, is in dire need of a technique that will detect any kind of inter-frame forgery in MPEG-4 encoded videos.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Inter-frame forgery;  Video forgery detection;  Video forgery detection survey;  Video tampering detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 726\
12th IFIP WG 11.9 International Conference on Advances in Digital Forensics, 2016\
(2016) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 484, pp. 1-396. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84990032166&partnerID=40&md5=06cccbd49ccac0b5c207430241bac65a\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 20 papers. The special focus in this conference is on Themes, Issues, Mobile Device Forensics, Network Forensics, Cloud Forensics, Social Media Forensics, Forensic Techniques and Forensic Tools. The topics include: On a scientific theory of digital forensics; data privacy perceptions about digital forensic investigations in India; optimizing short message text sentiment analysis for mobile device forensics; impact of user data privacy management controls on mobile device investigations; analyzing mobile device ads to identify users; reconstructing interactions with rich internet applications from HTTP traces; reconstructing tabbed browser sessions using metadata associations; API-Based forensic acquisition of cloud drives; profiling flash mob organizers in web discussion forums; enhancing image forgery detection using 2-D cross products; forensic authentication of bank checks; secure file deletion for solid state drives and advanced automated disk investigation toolkit.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 727\
Hampton, N., Baig, Z.A.\
57191411036;14008320400;\
Timestamp analysis for quality validation of network forensic data\
(2016) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 9955 LNCS, pp. 235-248. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84989918662&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-46298-1_16&partnerID=40&md5=1946fb3fe03696ae176714edaba5aacb\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-46298-1_16\
AFFILIATIONS: Edith Cowan University, Joondalup, Australia; \
School of Science & Security Research Institute, Edith Cowan University, Joondalup, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics is a fast-evolving field of study in contemporary times. One of the challenges of forensic analysis is the quality of evidence captured from computing devices and networks involved in a crime. The credibility of forensic evidence is dependent on the accuracy of established timelines of captured events. Despite the rising orders of magnitude in data volume captured by forensic analysts, the reliability and independence of the timing data source may be questionable due to the underlying network dynamics and the skew in the large number of intermediary system clocks that dictate packet time stamps. Through this paper, we propose a mechanism to verify the accuracy of forensic timing data through collaborative verification of forensic evidence obtained from multiple third party servers. The proposed scheme does analysis of HTTP response headers extracted from network packet capture (PCAP) files and validity testing of third party data through the application of statistical methods. We also develop a proof of concept universal time agreement protocol to independently verify timestamps generated by local logging servers and to provide a mechanism that may be adopted in digital forensics procedures. \'a9 Springer International Publishing AG 2016.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 728\
Kaur, M., Gupta, S.\
57213886588;55446506500;\
A passive blind approach for image splicing detection based on DWT and LBP histograms\
(2016) Communications in Computer and Information Science, 625, pp. 318-327. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84989917841&doi=10.1007%2f978-981-10-2738-3_27&partnerID=40&md5=598d8429e8e6d436283a89639156ef69\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-981-10-2738-3_27\
AFFILIATIONS: University Institute of Engineering and Technology, Panjab University, Chandigarh, India\
ABSTRACT: Splicing is the most generic kind of forgery found in digital images. Blind detection of such operations has become significant in determining the integrity of digital content. The current paper proposes a passive-blind technique for detecting image splicing using Discrete Wavelet Transform and histograms of Local Binary Pattern (LBP). Splicing operation introduces sharp transition in the form of lines, edges and corners, which are represented by high frequency components. Wavelet analysis characterizes these short-time transient by measuring local sharpness or smoothness from wavelet coefficients. After first level wavelet decomposition of the image, texture variation is studied along the detailed and approximation coefficients using local binary pattern (LBP), since tampering operations disrupts the textural microstructure of an image. Feature vector is formed by concatenating the LBP histogram from the four wavelet sub bands. The classification accuracy of the algorithm was determined using svm classifier using 10-fold cross validation. The method gives maximum accuracy for the chrominance channel of YCbCr color space, which is weak at hiding tampering traces. It is tested on four different kinds of standard spliced image dataset and its performance is compared with some of the latest methods. The method offers accuracy up to 97% for JPEG images present in the spliced image dataset. \'a9 Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2016.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Image forensics;  LBP histograms;  Passive-blind approach;  Tamper detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 729\
Olajide, F., Misra, S.\
37261854400;56962766700;\
Forensic investigation and analysis of user input information in business application\
(2016) Indian Journal of Science and Technology, 9 (25), art. no. 87990, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84979776544&doi=10.17485%2fijst%2f2016%2fv9i25%2f87990&partnerID=40&md5=c6ec2d44b3abe5fe7cee8a7f33d2329f\
\
DOI: 10.17485/ijst/2016/v9i25/87990\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer and Information Sciences, Covenant University, Ota, Nigeria\
ABSTRACT: Objectives: This paper investigates the amount of user input that can be recovered from the volatile memory of Windows computer systems while an application is still running. Additionally, an investigation into temporal, functional analysis and event reconstruction of user input activities in business application is discussed and reported upon. Methods/Analysis: Forensically, relevant user information is suitable for an evidentiary purpose. Therefore, the qualitative assessment of user input on commonly used windows-based applications is presented. Findings: In this research, detailed emphasis has been laid on the quality of evidence recovered from the allocated line numbers of the application memory. This approach describes the process of securing digital evidence for investigators. The research uncovers the process of analysing the forensically relevant data recovered from Windows applications. The investigation comprises of the following; dumping of memory, data extraction, strings evidence strings conversion, result finding of the evidence and also, reconstructing the extracted evidence of user information. Applications/Improvement: This research focuses on digital forensic investigation of digital images captured and the memory analysis of user information on using some very popular windowsbased applications. It is aimed that this may become part of forensic analysis in digital investigations.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Application;  Forensic;  Fraud information;  Investigation;  User-input\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 730 **SELECTED** SID: 40\
Konstantinos, K., Giorgos, P.\
57212267119;55671473500;\
File type identification for digital forensics\
(2016) Lecture Notes in Business Information Processing, 249, pp. 266-274. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84976604686&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-39564-7_25&partnerID=40&md5=f53019f465f7649ede1e68d3ccd53d52\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-39564-7_25\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Informatics Engineering, Technological Educational Institute of Crete, Heraklion, Crete, Greece\
ABSTRACT: In modern world the use of digital devices for leisure or professional reasons (computers, tablets and smartphones etc.) is growing quickly. Nevertheless, criminals try to fool authorities and hide evidence in a computer or any other digital device, by changing the file type. File type detection is a very demanding task for a digital forensic examiner. In this paper a new methodology is proposed - in a digital forensics perspective- to identify altered file types with high accuracy by employing computational intelligence techniques. The proposed methodology is applied in the four most common types of files (jpg, png and gif). A three stage process involving feature extraction (Byte Frequency Distribution), feature selection (genetic algorithm) and classification (neural network) is proposed. Experimental results were conducted having files altered in a digital forensics perspective and the results are presented. The proposed model shows very high and exceptional accuracy in file type identification. \'a9 Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2016.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computational intelligence;  Digital forensics;  File type identification;  Forensic examiner;  Genetic algorithm\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 731\
Mahmood, T., Nawaz, T., Irtaza, A., Ashraf, R., Shah, M., Mahmood, M.T.\
56081146500;15078397000;54882450900;56704783800;56499822800;25522066600;\
Copy-Move Forgery Detection Technique for Forensic Analysis in Digital Images\
(2016) Mathematical Problems in Engineering, 2016, art. no. 8713202, . Cited 44 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84975257963&doi=10.1155%2f2016%2f8713202&partnerID=40&md5=be4ad9fb8593b1f61be38ef4cfbdb3a0\
\
DOI: 10.1155/2016/8713202\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Engineering, University of Engineering and Technology, Taxila, 47050, Pakistan; \
Department of Software Engineering, University of Engineering and Technology, Taxila, 47050, Pakistan; \
Department of Computer Science, University of Engineering and Technology, Taxila, 47050, Pakistan; \
Department of Information Technology, Hazara University, Mansehra, 21140, Pakistan; \
School of Computer Science and Engineering, Korea University of Technology and Education, Cheonan, 330-708, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Due to the powerful image editing tools images are open to several manipulations; therefore, their authenticity is becoming questionable especially when images have influential power, for example, in a court of law, news reports, and insurance claims. Image forensic techniques determine the integrity of images by applying various high-tech mechanisms developed in the literature. In this paper, the images are analyzed for a particular type of forgery where a region of an image is copied and pasted onto the same image to create a duplication or to conceal some existing objects. To detect the copy-move forgery attack, images are first divided into overlapping square blocks and DCT components are adopted as the block representations. Due to the high dimensional nature of the feature space, Gaussian RBF kernel PCA is applied to achieve the reduced dimensional feature vector representation that also improved the efficiency during the feature matching. Extensive experiments are performed to evaluate the proposed method in comparison to state of the art. The experimental results reveal that the proposed technique precisely determines the copy-move forgery even when the images are contaminated with blurring, noise, and compression and can effectively detect multiple copy-move forgeries. Hence, the proposed technique provides a computationally efficient and reliable way of copy-move forgery detection that increases the credibility of images in evidence centered applications. \'a9 2016 Toqeer Mahmood et al.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 732\
Zhang, Y., Goh, J., Win, L.L., Thing, V.\
56013501000;56179886800;35591053300;6507064666;\
Image region forgery detection: A deep learning approach\
(2016) Cryptology and Information Security Series, 14, pp. 1-11. Cited 54 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84963705544&doi=10.3233%2f978-1-61499-617-0-1&partnerID=40&md5=c41c51f9908aaae2769e352a65bf322e\
\
DOI: 10.3233/978-1-61499-617-0-1\
AFFILIATIONS: Cyber Security and Intelligence Department, Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore\
ABSTRACT: In digital forensics, the detection of the presence of tampered images is of significant importance. The problem with the existing literature is that majority of them identify certain features in images tampered by a specific tampering method (such as copy-move, splicing, etc). This means that the method does not work reliably across various tampering methods. In addition, in terms of tampered region localization, most of the work targets only JPEG images due to the exploitation of double compression artifacts left during the re-compression of the manipulated image. However, in reality, digital forensics tools should not be specific to any image format and should also be able to localize the region of the image that was modified. In this paper, we propose a two stage deep learning approach to learn features in order to detect tampered images in different image formats. For the first stage, we utilize a Stacked Autoencoder model to learn the complex feature for each individual patch. For the second stage, we integrate the contextual information of each patch so that the detection can be conducted more accurately. In our experiments, we were able to obtain an overall tampered region localization accuracy of 91.09% over both JPEG and TIFF images from CASIA dataset, with a fall-out of 4.31% and a precision of 57.67% respectively. The accuracy over the JPEG tampered images is 87.51%, which outperforms the 40.84% and 79.72% obtained from two state of the art tampering detection approaches. \'a9 2016 The authors and IOS Press.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Deep learning;  Feature learning;  Image forgery detection;  Region localization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 733\
Dewald, A.\
36096530300;\
Characteristic evidence, counter evidence and reconstruction problems in forensic computing\
(2015) IT - Information Technology, 57 (6), pp. 339-346. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85075172262&doi=10.1515%2fitit-2015-0017&partnerID=40&md5=ad21c9cecc3e1220f27c0f24fe639463\
\
DOI: 10.1515/itit-2015-0017\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Martensstrasse 3, Erlangen, 91058, Germany\
ABSTRACT: With the ever increasing number of crimes in which computers or other digital devices are used, digital forensics plays an increasingly important role in today's jurisdiction. The acquisition and investigation of the devices is done by forensic experts, whose reports and personal explanations then form the basis of justice. Because of this great responsibility of the experts, the quality of their investigations has to meet the highest standards. Historically, forensic computing (as digital forensics) developed pragmatically, driven by specific technical needs. Indeed, in comparison with other forensic sciences the field still is rather immature and has many deficits, such as the unclear terminology used in court. In this paper, we introduce notions of (digital) evidence, characteristic evidence, and (characteristic) counter evidence, as well as the definitions of two fundamental forensic reconstruction problems. We show the relation of the observability of the different types of evidence to the solvability of those problems. By doing this, we wish to exemplify the usefulness of formalization in the establishment of a precise terminology. While this will not replace all terminological shortcomings, it (1) may provide the basis for a better understanding between experts, and (2) helps to understand the significance of different types of digital evidence to answer questions in an investigation. \'a9 2015 De Gruyter Oldenbourg. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Characteristic evidence;  Counter evidence;  Digital forensics;  Evidence;  Forensic computing;  Formalization;  Reconstruction problems;  Terminology\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 734 **SELECTED** SID: 41\
Botas, A., Rodr\'edguez, R.J., V\'e4is\'e4nen, T., Zdzichowski, P.\
57188924029;56794828000;22735608800;57188923822;\
Counterfeiting and defending the digital forensic process\
(2015) Proceedings - 15th IEEE International Conference on Computer and Information Technology, CIT 2015, 14th IEEE International Conference on Ubiquitous Computing and Communications, IUCC 2015, 13th IEEE International Conference on Dependable, Autonomic and Secure Computing, DASC 2015 and 13th IEEE International Conference on Pervasive Intelligence and Computing, PICom 2015, art. no. 7363337, pp. 1966-1971. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84964285847&doi=10.1109%2fCIT%2fIUCC%2fDASC%2fPICOM.2015.291&partnerID=40&md5=568cafaf3d05d289aa758b190fb9c3bc\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CIT/IUCC/DASC/PICOM.2015.291\
AFFILIATIONS: Research Institute of Applied Sciences in Cybersecurity, University of Leon, Leon, Spain; \
NATO Cooperative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence, Filtri tee 12, Tallinn, 10132, Estonia\
ABSTRACT: During the last years, criminals have become aware of how digital evidences that lead them to courts and jail are collected and analyzed. Hence, they have started to develop antiforensic techniques to evade, hamper, or nullify their evidences. Nowadays, these techniques are broadly used by criminals, causing the forensic analysis to be in a state of decay. To defeat against these techniques, forensic analyst need to first identify them, and then to mitigate somehow their effects. In this paper, we review the anti-forensic techniques and propose a new taxonomy that relates them to the initial phase of a forensic process mainly affected by each technique. Furthermore, we introduce mitigation techniques for these anti-forensic techniques, considering the chance to overcome the anti-forensic techniques and the difficulty to apply them. \'a9 2015 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Categorization;  Forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 735\
Vielhauer, C., Dittmann, J.\
6602138719;56157419800;\
From biometric to forensic hashing: Challenges in digital crime scene trace analysis\
(2015) 2015 23rd European Signal Processing Conference, EUSIPCO 2015, art. no. 7362486, pp. 764-768. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84963984728&doi=10.1109%2fEUSIPCO.2015.7362486&partnerID=40&md5=69072d9cc3b942673c4fd94151d9fe7d\
\
DOI: 10.1109/EUSIPCO.2015.7362486\
AFFILIATIONS: Research Group Multimedia and Security, Otto-von-Guericke-University of Magdeburg, Germany; \
Brandenburg University of Applied Sciences, Germany; \
University of Buckingham, Buckingham, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: The known BioHash concept introduced e.g. for handwriting biometrics offers possibility of template protection or to derive individual keys (e.g. crypto keys for further protection). In our paper we introduce two forensic use cases: (A) the forensic investigation of a BioHash found during digital forensics and (B) the application of the BioHash to latent crime scene traces in digitized forensics. Firstly, we elaborate the design of the BioHash in the known two operation modes with their essential parameter settings. Secondly we analyze, which forensic information can be derived and interpreted from publicly available data by introducing four investigation purposes. Further, we show that the BioHash can be used for a privacy-preserving search or to enhance reproducibility of varying features in crime scene forensics. \'a9 2015 EURASIP.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Biometrics;  Passive forensic analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 736\
Bahadur, P., Yadav, D.S.\
39860950100;57208308950;\
Computer forensics-digitized science\
(2015) IntelliSys 2015 - Proceedings of 2015 SAI Intelligent Systems Conference, art. no. 7361269, pp. 1025-1031. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84962659546&doi=10.1109%2fIntelliSys.2015.7361269&partnerID=40&md5=fbd5cdf10222a356055b77458cf69c7f\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IntelliSys.2015.7361269\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Science Department, Maharishi University of Management, Iowa, United States; \
Dr. B. R. Ambedkar Eng. College of I.T, Uttar Pradesh Technical University, Banda, India\
ABSTRACT: In today's era 'Digital' is a house hold name. As some way or the other technology is part of our lives. Digital media can be seen as the live example of the same. Digitization is in the air. It is peeping in our lives up to so much of extent that even if anything goes wrong we can rebuild the scene and investigate, what went wrong. While investigation we have to check, whether the crime has taken place through some digital media or crime has taken place and now digital media is used to build up the scene of crime and evidences. In this paper, we have discussed the computer forensics life cycle and a very much capable tool to investigate the digital media-Hex Editor. \'a9 2015 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer Forensics;  Cyber-crime;  Hex Editor;  Life Cycle;  Process\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 737 **SELECTED** SID: 42\
Adebayo, O.J., Asuleiman, I., Ade, A.Y., Ganiyu, S.O., Alabi, I.O.\
57188695354;57188694414;57188703535;57188695229;57214263825;\
Digital Forensic analysis for enhancing information security\
(2015) CYBER-Abuja 2015 - International Conference on Cyberspace Governance: The Imperative for National and Economic Security - Proceedings, art. no. 7360517, pp. 38-44. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84962339925&doi=10.1109%2fCYBER-Abuja.2015.7360517&partnerID=40&md5=d8b017501da93da77a684820a86d7ef5\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CYBER-Abuja.2015.7360517\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Cyber Security Science, Federal University of Technology, Minna, Nigeria; \
Department of Information and Media Technology, Federal University of Technology, Minna, Nigeria\
ABSTRACT: Digital Forensics is an area of Forensics Science that uses the application of scientific method toward crime investigation. The thwarting of forensic evidence is known as anti-forensics, the aim of which is ambiguous in the sense that it could be bad or good. The aim of this project is to simulate digital crimes scenario and carry out forensic and anti-forensic analysis to enhance security. This project uses several forensics and anti-forensic tools and techniques to carry out this work. The data analyzed were gotten from result of the simulation. The results reveal that although it might be difficult to investigate digital crime but with the help of sophisticated forensic tools/anti-forensics tools it can be accomplished. \'a9 2015 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-digital forensic;  Digital forensic;  Image acquisition;  Image integrity;  Privacy\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 738\
Tajuddin, T.B., Manaf, A.A.\
36070031900;35609249400;\
Forensic investigation and analysis on digital evidence discovery through physical acquisition on smartphone\
(2015) 2015 World Congress on Internet Security, WorldCIS 2015, art. no. 7359429, pp. 132-138. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84967189141&doi=10.1109%2fWorldCIS.2015.7359429&partnerID=40&md5=3a8d49f43de175a36a27151e91fc01e1\
\
DOI: 10.1109/WorldCIS.2015.7359429\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Computer and Mathematical Sciences, Universiti Teknologi MARA, Kedah, Malaysia; \
Advanced Informatics School, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: Cybercriminals are changing their strategies as users are less concerns on the smartphone and social networks security risks such as spams, that will threaten them as they are more dependent on the smartphone [1]. Thus, there's a need to perform the smartphone forensics analysis to retrieve and analysed the potentially great amounts and extremely valuable information on these devices. This paper investigates a wealth of personal and sensitive data by types of digital information as evidence and conducted forensic analysis on a popular smartphone Samsung Galaxy Note III. The standard approach applied to extract information from smartphone through physical acquisition and analysis using Cellebrite UFED. The results are presented to demonstrate the smartphone as a goldmine for investigators and as sources of digital evidence. Furthermore this research also presents the forensic tool and techniques for acquiring and examining digital evidence on this device. The evidence discovered include files, contacts, events of smartphone and social network data storage and location. The smartphone examined produced abundant user information and in total 98,127 artefacts were recovered. Performing the extraction and analysis of digital evidence over smartphone activities show the possibility of identifying potential suspects that could assist the forensic investigators in crime investigations. \'a9 2015 Infonomics Society.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: data extraction;  digital evidence;  mobile forensics;  physical acquisition;  smartphone\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 739\
Gelernter, N., Grinstein, Y., Herzberg, A.\
55948616300;57148004100;7006812302;\
Cross-site framing attacks\
(2015) ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, 7-11-December-2015, pp. 161-170. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84959371150&doi=10.1145%2f2818000.2818029&partnerID=40&md5=1f3875de15968404844cced1aaa45d93\
\
DOI: 10.1145/2818000.2818029\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Bar Ilan University, Israel\
ABSTRACT: We identify the threat of cross-site framing attacks, which involves planting false evidence that incriminates computer users, without requiring access to their computer. We further show that a variety of framing-evidence can be planted using only modest framing-attacker capabilities. The attacker can plant evidence in both the logs of popular reputable sites and in the computer of the victim, without requiring client-side malware and without leaving traces. To infect the records of several of the most popular sites, we identified operations that are often considered benign and hence not protected from cross-site request forgery (CSRF) attacks. We demonstrate the attacks on the largest search engines: Google, Bing, and Yahoo!, on Youtube and Facebook, and on the e-commerce sites: Amazon, eBay, and Craigslist. To plant pieces of framing evidence on the computer, we abused the vulnerabilities of browsers and weaknesses in the examination procedure done by forensic software. Specifically, we show that it is possible to manipulate the common NTFS file system and to plant files on the hard disk of the victim, without leaving any traces indicating that these files were created via the browser. We validated the effectiveness of the framing evidence with the assistance of law authorities, in addition to using prominent forensic software. This work also discusses tactics for defense against cross-site framing and its applicability to web-services, browsers, and forensic software. \'a9 2015 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forensic;  Framing;  Security;  Web attacks\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 740\
Fu, X., Du, X., Luo, B.\
42961441400;8371278000;57202866205;\
Data correlation-based analysis methods for automatic memory forensic\
(2015) Security and Communication Networks, 8 (18), pp. 4213-4226. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84959311443&doi=10.1002%2fsec.1337&partnerID=40&md5=75197309c12872f6b41027287f8b314e\
\
DOI: 10.1002/sec.1337\
AFFILIATIONS: Software Institute, Nanjing University, Nanjing, 19122, China; \
Department of Computer and Information Sciences, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA  19122, United States\
ABSTRACT: Memory forensics is an important technique for protecting network security and fighting against computer crimes. It has developed greatly in the past decade, because memory can provide more reliable information that other evidence sources do not contain. However, nowadays, when investigating network criminal cases, the Gigabyte (GB) and even Terabyte (TB) level memory and many such dumps have made memory analysis a difficult task. And investigators usually have to deal with complex operating system (OS) data structures, which they have little knowledge of. So how to analyze memory evidence automatically so as to find the hidden criminal behavior and reconstruct the scenario in an understandable way has become an important problem. This paper presents an automatic memory analysis methodology based on data correlation. Through analyzing key OS data structures and utilizing a clustering algorithm, this methodology can discover the relationships among processes, files, users, Dynamic-link library (DLLs), and network connections. By describing these relationships as correlation graphs, our methods can reorganize these independent memory evidences and disclose their meanings in a high semantic level. Experiments have proved that these correlation graphs can help investigators find hidden criminal behavior and reconstruct the criminal scenarios. And as we know, now, little work is in this field. \'a9 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Clustering;  Event reconstruction;  Memory evidences analysis;  Memory forensics;  Process correlation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 741\
Ingels, M., Valjarevic, A., Venter, H.S.\
57188650583;57221675883;7005841055;\
Evaluation and analysis of a software prototype for guidance and implementation of a standardized digital forensic investigation process\
(2015) 2015 Information Security for South Africa - Proceedings of the ISSA 2015 Conference, art. no. 7335052, . Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84962130449&doi=10.1109%2fISSA.2015.7335052&partnerID=40&md5=05e2b3fa034e3c1f615237f684e0f8d5\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISSA.2015.7335052\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: Performing a digital forensic investigation requires a standardized and formalized process to be followed. The authors have contributed to the creation of an international standard on digital forensic investigation process, namely ISO/IEC 27043:2015, which was published in 2015. However, currently, there exists no application that would guide a digital forensic investigator to implement such a standardized process. The prototype of such an application has been developed by the authors and presented in their previous work. The prototype is in the form of a software application which has two main functionalities. The first functionality is to act as an expert system that can be used for guidance and training of novice investigators. The second functionality is to enable reliable logging of all actions taken within the investigation processes, enabling the validation of use of a correct process. The benefits of such a prototype include possible improvement in efficiency and effectiveness of an investigation and easier training of novice investigators. The last, and possibly most important benefit, includes that higher admissibility of digital evidence will be possible due to the fact that it will be easier to show that the standardized process was followed. This paper presents an evaluation of the prototype. Evaluation was performed in order to measure the usability and the quality of the prototype software, as well as the effectiveness of the prototype. The evaluation of the prototype consisted of two main parts. The first part was a software usability evaluation, which was performed using the Software Usability Measurement Inventory (SUMI), a reliable method of measuring software usability and quality. The second part of evaluation was in a form of a questionnaire set up by the authors, with the aim to evaluate whether the prototype meets its goals. The results indicated that the prototype reaches most of its goals, that it does have intended functionalities and that it is realatively easy to learn and use. Areas of improvement and future work were also identified in this work. \'a9 2015 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: digital forensic investigation process model;  digital forensics;  implementation prototype;  ISO/IEC 27043;  software evaluation;  standardization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 742\
Pieterse, H., Olivier, M.S., Van Heerden, R.P.\
55487079900;7101741068;6506752785;\
Playing hide-and-seek: Detecting the manipulation of Android Timestamps\
(2015) 2015 Information Security for South Africa - Proceedings of the ISSA 2015 Conference, art. no. 7335065, . Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84962050537&doi=10.1109%2fISSA.2015.7335065&partnerID=40&md5=016f4098b672d396c1325edbb082a190\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISSA.2015.7335065\
AFFILIATIONS: Defence, Peace, Safety and Security, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, Pretoria, South Africa; \
Department of Computer Science, University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa; \
Meraka Institute, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, Pretoria, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: Mobile technology continues to evolve in the 21st century, providing users with improved capabilities and advance functionality. One of the leaders of this evolution is Android, a mobile operating system that continuously elevates existing features and offers new applications. Such improvements allowed Android to gain popularity worldwide. A combination of Android's advance technology and increasing popularity allow smartphones supporting this operating system to become a rich source of trace evidence. Traces found on Android smartphones form a significant part of digital investigations, especially when the user of the smartphone is involved in criminal activities. A key component of these traces is the date and time, often formed as timestamps. These timestamps allow the examiner to relate the traces found on Android smartphones to some real event that took place. Knowing when events occurred in digital investigations is of great importance to the overall success of the investigation. This paper introduces a new solution, called the Authenticity Framework for Android Timestamps (AFAT) that establishes the authenticity of timestamps found on Android smartphones. Currently the framework determines the authenticity of timestamps found in SQLite databases by following two individual methods. The first method identifies the presence of certain changes in the Android file system, which are indications of the manipulation of the SQLite databases. The second method subsequently focuses on the individual SQLite databases and the identification of inconsistencies in these databases. The presence of specific file system changes as well as inconsistencies in the associated SQLite databases indicates that authenticity of the timestamps might be compromised. The results presented in the paper provide preliminary evidence that the suggested approach, Authenticity Framework for Android Timestamps, shows potential. \'a9 2015 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android;  Digital Forensics;  Manipulation;  Mobile Forensics;  Smartphones;  SQLite Databases;  Timestamps\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 743\
Faheem, M., Kechadi, T., Le-Khac, N.A.\
57198178335;6603214509;16175564100;\
The state of the art forensic techniques in mobile cloud environment: A survey, challenges and current trends\
(2015) Web-Based Services: Concepts, Methodologies, Tools, and Applications, pp. 2324-2344. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85028294632&doi=10.4018%2f978-1-4666-9466-8.ch103&partnerID=40&md5=64b2c9bdaec46134e8893c3e43aede2e\
\
DOI: 10.4018/978-1-4666-9466-8.ch103\
AFFILIATIONS: University College Dublin, Ireland\
ABSTRACT: Smartphones have become popular in recent days due to the accessibility of a wide range of applications. These sophisticated applications demand more computing resources in a resource constraint smartphone. Cloud computing is the motivating factor for the progress of these applications. The emerging mobile cloud computing introduces a new architecture to offload smartphone and utilize cloud computing technology to solve resource requirements. The popularity of mobile cloud computing is an opportunity for misuse and unlawful activities. Therefore, it is a challenging platform for digital forensic investigations due to the non-availability of methodologies, tools and techniques. The aim of this work is to analyze the forensic tools and methodologies for crime investigation in a mobile cloud platform as it poses challenges in proving the evidence. \'a9 2016, IGI Global.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 744\
Baggili, I., Oduro, J., Anthony, K., Breitinger, F., McGee, G.\
37261105300;57188554262;57188559199;44260893600;8757374600;\
Watch what you wear: Preliminary forensic analysis of smart watches\
(2015) Proceedings - 10th International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security, ARES 2015, art. no. 7299930, pp. 303-311. Cited 31 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84961589873&doi=10.1109%2fARES.2015.39&partnerID=40&md5=b6102980f7d07b10accb0814ad5b6f3e\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ARES.2015.39\
AFFILIATIONS: University of New Haven, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Computer Science, University of New Haven Cyber Forensics Research and Education Group (UNHcFREG), West Haven, CT, United States\
ABSTRACT: This work presents preliminary forensic analysis of two popular smart watches, the Samsung Gear 2 Neo and LG G. These wearable computing devices have the form factor of watches and sync with smart phones to display notifications, track footsteps and record voice messages. We posit that as smart watches are adopted by more users, the potential for them becoming a haven for digital evidence will increase thus providing utility for this preliminary work. In our work, we examined the forensic artifacts that are left on a Samsung Galaxy S4 Active phone that was used to sync with the Samsung Gear 2 Neo watch and the LG G watch. We further outline a methodology for physically acquiring data from the watches after gaining root access to them. Our results show that we can recover a swath of digital evidence directly form the watches when compared to the data on the phone that is synced with the watches. Furthermore, to root the LG G watch, the watch has to be reset to its factory settings which is alarming because the process may delete data of forensic relevance. Although this method is forensically intrusive, it may be used for acquiring data from already rooted LG watches. It is our observation that the data at the core of the functionality of at least the two tested smart watches, messages, health and fitness data, e-mails, contacts, events and notifications are accessible directly from the acquired images of the watches, which affirms our claim that the forensic value of evidence from smart watches is worthy of further study and should be investigated both at a high level and with greater specificity and granularity. \'a9 2015 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android forensics;  LG G smart watch;  Mobile forensics;  Samsung Gear 2 Neo smart watch;  Smart watch forensics;  Tizen forensics;  Wearable devices\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 745 **SELECTED** SID: 43 **UNAVAILABLE**\
Castiglione, A., Castiglione, A., De Santis, A., Masucci, B., Palmieri, F., Pizzolante, R.\
16027997000;55349345800;6602419751;6602648020;7103111550;54394039100;\
Novel insider threat techniques: Automation and generation of ad hoc digital evidence\
(2015) MIST 2015 - Proceedings of the 7th ACM CCS International Workshop on Managing Insider Security Threats, co-located with CCS 2015, pp. 29-39. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84956597631&doi=10.1145%2f2808783.2808789&partnerID=40&md5=74b2f0987adf29d251dbd1d7e2a8f430\
\
DOI: 10.1145/2808783.2808789\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, University of Salerno, Fisciano (SA), I-84084, Italy\
ABSTRACT: It is well-known that in today's information systems the vast majority of threats are coming from outside. In order to mitigate the effects of those threats several countermeasures have been proposed. Conversely, the same approach has not been adopted against insider threats, since such menaces come from the inside. Indeed, insiders are not considered enemies and so less attention have been focused on them. Also, what is worst is that who acts from the inside have remarkably more access rights to information if compared to the external attackers. In this work we show how to perform some actions on be- half of someone else that is unaware of the actions are being carried out. If those actions are illicit or illegal, this can become a serious problem that can result in the indictment of who will be considered responsible. Moreover, in order to validate our proposal, we consider the adoption of two different techniques. The first one is to automate as much as possible the actions to be performed by an insider. The second one is to prepare ad hoc digital evidence to thwart an investigation aimed at establishing the dynamics of the malicious activity. Clearly, the combination of these two techniques will amplify and magnify the effects of the nasty activity and will result also in a more difficult identification of the guilty party. Finally, this paper illustrates some typical scenarios where the proposed approach can be easily adopted and shows that recent technologies and devices can be more and more powerful tools in the hands of malicious insiders. \'a9 2015 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Counter-forensics;  Digital forensics;  False evidence;  Information forensics;  Insider threats;  Predetermined digital evidence\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 746 **SELECTED** SID: 44\
Singhal, A., Liu, C., Wijesekera, D.\
14056810000;55490693800;6603774480;\
A logic based network forensics model for evidence analysis\
(2015) Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security, 2015-October, p. 1677. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84954121385&doi=10.1145%2f2810103.2810106&partnerID=40&md5=dd57546492ec994c4b4ad43f9324d9a2\
\
DOI: 10.1145/2810103.2810106\
AFFILIATIONS: George Mason University, National Institute of Standards and Technology, United States\
ABSTRACT: Network forensics is an extension of the network security model, which traditionally emphasizes prevention and detection of network attacks. It addresses the need for dedicated investigative capabilities for investigation of malicious behavior in networks. Modern-day attackers tend to use sophisticated multi-stage, multihost attack techniques and anti-forensics tools to cover their attack traces. Due to the current limitations of intrusion detection and forensic analysis tools, reconstructing attack scenarios from evidence left behind by the attackers of an enterprise system is challenging. In particular, reconstructing attack scenarios by using the information from IDS alerts and system logs that have a large number of false positives is a big challenge. Many researchers have proposed to aggregate redundant alerts and correlate them to determine multi-step attacks [1]. This method is non-automated and rather ad-hoc. As an improvement, Wang at el. [7] proposed automating the process by using a fuzzyrule based hierarchical reasoning framework to correlate alerts using so-called local rules and group them using so-called global rules. However, this approach falls apart when evidence is destroyed, and it does not assess the potential of the evidences admissibility so that the constructed attack scenario presented to a judge or jury has legal standing. In this talk, we will present a model [4] that systematically addresses how to resolve the above problems to reconstruct the attack scenario. These problems include a large amount of data including non-relevant data, missing evidence or evidence destroyed by anti-forensic techniques. Our system is based on a Prolog reasoning system MulVAL [6] using known vulnerability databases and an antiforensics database that we plan to extend to a standardized database like the NIST National Vulnerability Database (NVD). In this model, we use different methods, including mapping the evidence to system vulnerabilities, inductive reasoning and abductive reasoning to reconstruct attack scenarios. Besides, for the legal purpose, we codified the federal rules to this tool, aiming to help judge whether the evidence that is used to reconstruct the attack scenarios could be admissible in the court [5]. In addition, in order to help the investigators to quantify the probability of an attack path we use Bayesian Network to calculate the cumulative likelihood of the evidences. The goal of this research is to provide a tool that can reduce the investigators' time and effort in reaching definite conclusion about how an attack occurred. Also, this tool can be used to assist judge/jury or law students to better understand a multi-step, multihost attack towards an enterprise network by using a visual graph and probabilities. Our experimental results indicate that such a reasoning system can be useful for network forensics analysis. Copyright is held by the flowner/author(s).\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Admissibility;  Cybercrime;  Digital evidence;  Evidence graph;  Network attack scenario;  Network forensics;  Prolog reasoning\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 747\
Mathew, L.M., Suma, R., Kizhakkethottam, J.J.\
57189591295;50861744200;55949461500;\
A survey on different video restoration techniques\
(2015) Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Soft-Computing and Network Security, ICSNS 2015, art. no. 7292442, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84973375764&doi=10.1109%2fICSNS.2015.7292442&partnerID=40&md5=cf18e22cb135153b90e859a478c174b5\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICSNS.2015.7292442\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering, St. Joseph's College of Engineering and Technology, Palai, Kerala, India\
ABSTRACT: The recovery of a damaged or altered video file plays a vital role in searching for evidences to resolve a criminal case in digital forensics. Here, a frame-based recovery method for a corrupted video file has been proposed using the specifications of a codec that is used to encode the video data. The existing approaches try to recover a video file with the help of the file structure rather than frame structure. But the problem is that in the case where a target video file is severely fragmented or has a portion of video overwritten by other video content, video file recovery of existing approaches may fail. The proposed approach addresses how to extract video frames from a portion of the video to be restored as well as how to connect extracted video frames together according to the codec specifications. This paper proposes a technique to restore the video data on a frame basis from its corrupted versions where the video data has been significantly fragmented or partly overwritten in the storage media. The proposed method identifies, collects, and connects isolated video frames using the video codec specifications for non-overwritten portions of the video data to restore a corrupted video file. \'a9 2015 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: corrupted video data;  frame-based recovery;  Video file restoration;  video file specifications\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 748\
Sandoval Orozco, A.L., Garc\'eda Villalba, L.J., Gonz\'e1lez, D.M.A., Corripio, J.R., Hernandez-Castro, J., Gibson, S.J.\
57192440192;14039837800;57213451990;56345796500;12241916500;9040731300;\
Smartphone image acquisition forensics using sensor fingerprint\
(2015) IET Computer Vision, 9 (5), pp. 723-731. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84942048303&doi=10.1049%2fiet-cvi.2014.0243&partnerID=40&md5=298d4f80f4541803265fc7a144a1f28b\
\
DOI: 10.1049/iet-cvi.2014.0243\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Software Engineering and Artificial Intelligence (DISIA), Group of Analysis Security and Systems (GASS), School of Computer Science, Office 43, Universidad Complutense de Madrid (UCM), Ciudad Universitaria, Calle Profesor Jos\'e9 Garc\'eda Santesmases s/n, Madrid, 28040, Spain; \
School of Computing, University of Kent, Canterbury, CT2 7NF, United Kingdom; \
School of Physical Sciences, University of Kent, Canterbury, Kent, CT2 7NH, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: The forensic analysis of digital images from mobile devices is particularly important given their quick expansion and everyday use in the society. A further consequence of digital images' widespread use is that they are used today as silent witnesses in legal proceedings, as crucial evidence of the crime. This study specifically addresses the description of a technique that allows the identification of the image source acquisition, for the specific case of mobile devices images. This approach is to extract wavelet-based features from sensor pattern noise which are then classified using a support vector machine. Moreover, there are a number of parameters that allows the authors to adapt the execution of the algorithm to specific situations desired for the forensic analyst (a variety of types and sizes of image or optimising the average accuracy rate in terms of processing time). This article describes a set of experiments with the same set of images that can obtain general conclusions for the different configurations. \'a9 The Institution of Engineering and Technology 2015.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 749\
Faheem, M., Kechadi, T., Le-Khac, N.A.\
57198178335;6603214509;16175564100;\
The state of the art forensic techniques in mobile cloud environment: A survey, challenges and current trends\
(2015) Mobile Computing and Wireless Networks: Concepts, Methodologies, Tools, and Applications, 4-4, pp. 2111-2131. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84958719594&doi=10.4018%2f978-1-4666-8751-6.ch092&partnerID=40&md5=2a98d6c96817adb88ef7790e4a33a028\
\
DOI: 10.4018/978-1-4666-8751-6.ch092\
AFFILIATIONS: University College Dublin, Ireland\
ABSTRACT: Smartphones have become popular in recent days due to the accessibility of a wide range of applications. These sophisticated applications demand more computing resources in a resource constraint smartphone. Cloud computing is the motivating factor for the progress of these applications. The emerging mobile cloud computing introduces a new architecture to offload smartphone and utilize cloud computing technology to solve resource requirements. The popularity of mobile cloud computing is an opportunity for misuse and unlawful activities. Therefore, it is a challenging platform for digital forensic investigations due to the non-availability of methodologies, tools and techniques. The aim of this work is to analyze the forensic tools and methodologies for crime investigation in a mobile cloud platform as it poses challenges in proving the evidence. \'a9 2016, IGI Global. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 750\
Mohite, M.P., Ardhapurkar, S.B.\
56958390400;56958443700;\
Design and implementation of a cloud based computer forensic tool\
(2015) Proceedings - 2015 5th International Conference on Communication Systems and Network Technologies, CSNT 2015, art. no. 7280070, pp. 1005-1009. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84946925029&doi=10.1109%2fCSNT.2015.180&partnerID=40&md5=fbb0ef89b7c7653caad7bb96a064420b\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CSNT.2015.180\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Technology, Y.C.C.E, Nagpur, India\
ABSTRACT: Nowadays, Cloud computing is receiving more and more attention from the information and communication technology industry recently. Thus, From the demand of cloud users digital forensics in cloud computing are a raw expanse of study linked to the increasing use of information processing governance, internet and digital computer storage devices in numerous criminal actions in both traditional and Hi-Tech. The digital forensics, including handle, conduct of, study, and document digital evidence in a court of law. Digital Forensic tool in a cloud computing environment is a big demand from forensic investigator. Thus, in the process of digital forensics, it is needed to create an image of the original digital data without damage and to show that the computer evidence existed at the specific time. The evidences are then analyzed by the forensic investigator. After the proof is examined, it is obliged to make a report to embrace it as legitimately successful confirmation in the law court. To give an advanced crime scene investigation benefit on cloud environment, a cloud based computer forensic tool is proposed in this paper. To probe the evidence multiple features are provided in this tool like data recovery, sorting, indexing, hex viewer, data bookmarking. \'a9 2015 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud Computing;  Computer Forensic;  Digital Evidence;  Forensic Investigation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 751\
Li, H., Luo, W., Huang, J.\
55617662700;18042301700;56057258200;\
Anti-forensics of double JPEG compression with the same quantization matrix\
(2015) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 74 (17), pp. 6729-6744. Cited 13 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84940451958&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-014-1927-0&partnerID=40&md5=7016b8d10c6b0772e13fccc5130454b7\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-014-1927-0\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information Science and Technology, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China; \
School of Software, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510006, China; \
College of Information Engineering, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, 518060, China\
ABSTRACT: Double JPEG compression detection plays an important role in digital image forensics. Recently, Huang et al. (IEEE Trans Inf Forensics Security 5(4):848\'96856, 2010) first pointed out that the number of different discrete cosine transform (DCT) coefficients would monotonically decrease when repeatedly compressing a JPEG image with the same quantization matrix, and a strategy based on random permutation was developed to expose such an operation successfully. In this paper, we propose an anti-forensic method to fool this method. The proposed method tries to slightly modify the DCT coefficients for confusing the traces introduced by double JPEG compression with the same quantization matrix. By investigating the relationship between the DCT coefficients of the first compression and those of the second one, we determine the quantity of modification by constructing a linear model. Furthermore, in order to improve the security of anti-forensics, the locations of modification are adaptively selected according to the complexity of the image texture. The extensive experiments evaluated on 10,000 natural images have shown that the proposed method can effectively confuse the detector proposed in Huang et al. (IEEE Trans Inf Forensics Security 5(4):848\'96856, 2010), while keeping higher visual quality and leaving fewer other detectable statistical artifacts. \'a9 2014, Springer Science+Business Media New York.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Digital forensics;  Double JPEG compression\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 752\
Saibharath, S., Geethakumari, G.\
56593215400;15768843300;\
Pre processing of evidences from cloud components for effective forensic analysis\
(2015) 2015 International Conference on Advances in Computing, Communications and Informatics, ICACCI 2015, art. no. 7275641, pp. 394-399. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84946207271&doi=10.1109%2fICACCI.2015.7275641&partnerID=40&md5=0389ad75e4e35bafccc7318b28f44475\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICACCI.2015.7275641\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Information Systems, BITS Pilani, Hyderabad Campus, Hyderabad, India\
ABSTRACT: Business organizations are migrating from capital expenditure models to the pay per use model of Cloud computing and avoiding infrastructural costs. Cloud systems being prone to attacks, there is a need of cyber forensic mechanisms. Traditional digital forensics models and solutions cannot be applied directly in cloud platform due to its distinct features such as multi tenancy, virtualization, rapid elasticity and the segregation of duties among cloud actors. Several technical challenges under variability of architecture, data collection, analysis and anti-forensics exist in cloud forensics. In this paper, firstly a cloud forensic clustering model is proposed across multiple virtual machine instances. Every virtual machine constitutes a virtual machine disk and its corresponding RAM image. This forensic clustering solution reduces the search space, enables multi drive correlation and forms a social network of virtual machine instances. Secondly addressing variability of cloud architectures, open source cloud platforms OpenNebula and OpenStack are compared with respect to location of evidence artifacts. An acquisition approach with the pre-processing engine to handle different architectures is designed and implemented. \'a9 2015 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud computing;  Cloud Forensics;  Digital Forensics;  Forensic clustering;  OpenNebula;  OpenStack;  Virtual machines\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 753\
Kang, X., Qin, T., Zeng, H.\
7102354750;56303336200;56970301000;\
Countering median filtering anti-forensics and performance evaluation of forensics against intentional attacks\
(2015) 2015 IEEE China Summit and International Conference on Signal and Information Processing, ChinaSIP 2015 - Proceedings, art. no. 7230449, pp. 483-487. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84957552753&doi=10.1109%2fChinaSIP.2015.7230449&partnerID=40&md5=5b110e96f94460b598c3e0428f048e78\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ChinaSIP.2015.7230449\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information Science AndTechnology, Sun Yat-Sen University, China\
ABSTRACT: Median filtering forensics and its anti-forensic attack have received considerable attention since median filtering can be used for both image enhancement and anti-forensic purposes. A median filtering anti-forensic attack method by adding uniformly distributed noise was proposed in an image pixel domain. However, we observe that this attack method leaves visible traces in the histogram of its median filtering residual (MFR) and can be detected using a histogram bin ratio of its MFR in the textured area. In order to eliminate this trace left in the MFR, we propose to adding noise adaptively in pixel domain to keep a constant minimal SNR. The performance of several forensic methods are evaluated under several attacks, it shows that the AR (autoregressive) forensic method has the most robustness against intentional attacks compared with the other forensic methods. \'a9 2015 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensic attack;  Image Forensics;  Median Filtering;  median filtering residual (MFR);  Noise Addition\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 754\
Laptikultham, S., Tritilanunt, S.\
56938711800;15137205000;\
Modeling and analysis of two-factor authentication protocol for USB digital evidence acquisition devices\
(2015) Proceedings of the 2015 12th International Joint Conference on Computer Science and Software Engineering, JCSSE 2015, art. no. 7219803, pp. 241-246. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84945948320&doi=10.1109%2fJCSSE.2015.7219803&partnerID=40&md5=728e9a6fc0cabb17655bf184852324b7\
\
DOI: 10.1109/JCSSE.2015.7219803\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Engineering, Mahidol University, Nakhon Pathom, Thailand\
ABSTRACT: This paper proposes two-factor authentication protocol for adding security layer to USB digital evidence acquisition devices, and preventing illegal usage of data stored in that devices from unauthorized users. By using one time password generated from unique parameters of individual user, the proposed protocol can be used to protect forensic acquisition software and sensitive information stored in storage devices from any unauthorized users. In the protocol design and experiment, we use a formal method tool to model and verify for ensuring the correctness of workflow as well as a security of the protocol. The result from simulation and state space analysis show that the proposed protocol is able to strengthen up the security of USB storage devices and satisfies basic security properties. \'a9 2015 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: One-Time Password;  Two-factor authentication;  Two-Step Verification;  USB storage device\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 755\
Zawoad, S., Hasan, R.\
55734641700;8529353900;\
FAIoT: Towards Building a Forensics Aware Eco System for the Internet of Things\
(2015) Proceedings - 2015 IEEE International Conference on Services Computing, SCC 2015, art. no. 7207364, pp. 279-284. Cited 82 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84953432852&doi=10.1109%2fSCC.2015.46&partnerID=40&md5=6efcb787d6e0464ca99e7c0b7d2992c2\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SCC.2015.46\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL  35294-1170, United States\
ABSTRACT: The Internet of Things (IoT) involves numerous connected smart things with different technologies and communication standards. While IoT opens new opportunities in various fields, it introduces new challenges in the field of digital forensics investigations. The existing tools and procedures of digital forensics cannot meet the highly distributed and heterogeneous infrastructure of the IoT. Forensics investigators will face challenges while identifying necessary pieces of evidence from the IoT environment, and collecting and analyzing those evidence. In this article, we propose the first working definition of IoT forensics and systematically analyze the IoT forensics domain to explore the challenges and issues in this special branch of digital forensics. We propose a Forensics-aware IoT (FAIoT) model for supporting reliable forensics investigations in the IoT environment. \'a9 2015 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forensic Investigation;  IoT Forensics;  IoT Security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 756\
Balzarotti, D., Di Pietro, R., Villani, A.\
23395942900;57216385914;54586171500;\
The impact of GPU-assisted malware on memory forensics: A case study\
(2015) Digital Investigation, 14 (S1), art. no. 567, pp. S16-S24. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84938981935&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2015.05.010&partnerID=40&md5=648a0b3c9a9f3a1f62bf8647fc1c07bc\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2015.05.010\
AFFILIATIONS: Eurecom, Sophia Antipolis, France; \
Bell LabsParis, France; \
Department of Mathematics and Physics, University of Roma TreRome, Italy; \
Department of Maths, University of Padua, Padua, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Abstract In this paper we assess the impact of GPU-assisted malware on memory forensics. In particular, we first introduce four different techniques that malware can adopt to hide its presence. We then present a case study on a very popular family of Intel GPUs, and we analyze in which cases the forensic analysis can be performed using only the host's memory and in which cases it requires access to the GPU's memory. Our analysis shows that, by offloading some computation to the GPUs, it is possible to successfully hide some malicious behavior. Furthermore, we provide suggestions and insights about which artifacts could be used to detect the presence of GPU-assisted malware. \'a9 2015 The Authors.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Forensics;  Direct Rendering Manager;  Graphic processing units;  Malware;  Memory analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 757\
Grier, J., Richard, G.G., III\
45561300400;7102387624;\
Rapid forensic imaging of large disks with sifting collectors\
(2015) Digital Investigation, 14 (S1), art. no. 563, pp. S34-S44. Cited 12 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84938976836&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2015.05.006&partnerID=40&md5=6b2a1b97ee3432fea9826d728213ae15\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2015.05.006\
AFFILIATIONS: Grier Forensics, United States; \
Department of Computer Science, University of New Orleans, New Orleans, LA  70148, United States\
ABSTRACT: Abstract We present a new approach to digital forensic evidence acquisition and disk imaging called sifting collectors that images only those regions of a disk with expected forensic value. Sifting collectors produce a sector-by-sector, bit-identical AFF v3 image of selected disk regions that can be mounted and is fully compatible with existing forensic tools and methods. In our test cases, they have achieved an acceleration of >3\'d7 while collecting >95% of the evidence, and in some cases we have observed acceleration of up to 13\'d7. Sifting collectors challenge many conventional notions about forensic acquisition and may help tame the volume challenge by enabling examiners to rapidly acquire and easily store large disks without sacrificing the many benefits of imaging. \'a9 2015 The Authors.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Forensic acquisition;  Partial imaging;  Sifting collectors;  Triage\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 758\
Bahrami, K., Kot, A.C.\
57214297563;35588578100;\
Image splicing localization based on blur type inconsistency\
(2015) Proceedings - IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems, 2015-July, art. no. 7168815, pp. 1042-1045. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84946230705&doi=10.1109%2fISCAS.2015.7168815&partnerID=40&md5=eaefb1ab19819a4d2fea4a3b508cac25\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISCAS.2015.7168815\
AFFILIATIONS: Rapid-Rich Object Search Lab, School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, 639798, Singapore\
ABSTRACT: In a spliced blurred image, the spliced region and the original image may have different blur types. Splicing localization in this image is challenging when a forger uses image resizing as anti-forensics to remove the splicing traces anomalies. In this paper, we overcome this problem by proposing a method for splicing localization based on partial blur type inconsistency. In this method, after the block-based image partitioning, a local blur type detection feature is extracted from the estimated local blur kernels. The image blocks are classified into out-of-focus or motion blur based on this feature to generate invariant blur type regions. Finally a fine splicing localization is applied to increase the precision of regions boundary. We can use the blur type differences of the regions to trace the inconsistency for the splicing localization. Our experimental results show the efficiency of the proposed method in the detection and the classification of the out-of-focus and motion blur types. \'a9 2015 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 759\
Seo, J., Lee, S., Shon, T.\
57211702744;55766506800;13408680500;\
A study on memory dump analysis based on digital forensic tools\
(2015) Peer-to-Peer Networking and Applications, 8 (4), pp. 694-703. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84931578799&doi=10.1007%2fs12083-013-0217-3&partnerID=40&md5=48a7d128579b832c4b4291a50677f41e\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s12083-013-0217-3\
AFFILIATIONS: The Attached Institute of ETRI, Daejeon, South Korea; \
Ajou University, Suwon, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: The application of IT in all industrial facilities has led to the use of special-purpose systems in diverse areas. As such, special-purpose systems have increasingly become the target or path of hacking attacks. From a digital forensics viewpoint, these systems can be used to gather evidence from all the relevant digital devices such as whole systems or storage units at the scene of a crime. Notably, In case of special-purpose embedded system, unlike a conventional computing system, is almost always \'91powered on\'92 like server, the accumulated data can remain in the volatile memory. This paper focuses on analyzing ways of gathering physical memory data for application in an embedded system and of developing a test system to analyze the physical memory for verification. \'a9 2013, Springer Science+Business Media New York.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Dump;  Embedded;  Forensic;  Linux;  Memory;  Memory dump;  Ram\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 760\
Mambodza, W.T., Nagoormeeran, A.R.\
56938700900;56938748400;\
Android mobile forensic analyzer for stegno data\
(2015) IEEE International Conference on Circuit, Power and Computing Technologies, ICCPCT 2015, art. no. 7159271, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84945892723&doi=10.1109%2fICCPCT.2015.7159271&partnerID=40&md5=0a28574e97211d0cbac16f6e9f7fd84c\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICCPCT.2015.7159271\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Technology, SRM University, Chennai, India\
ABSTRACT: The advancement of technology has led to better and improved service in mobile communication networks. Smartphones are being used by people for social networking, conducting business transactions as well as committing crime. Anti-Forensic compromises the availability of evidence to the forensic process causing problems to the investigator. The aim of this paper is to provide a solution to the anti-forensic technique of steganography by designing and implementation of an application that will scan, hash and analyze for any hidden information on an image, video or audio file on an android device and collect data for digital profiling or investigation. \'a9 2015 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android;  Anti-forensics;  Investigation;  Steganography\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 761\
Halboob, W., Mahmod, R., Abulaish, M., Abbas, H., Saleem, K.\
26428754700;6506085008;6505934038;57221959316;24766676700;\
Data Warehousing Based Computer Forensics Investigation Framework\
(2015) Proceedings - 12th International Conference on Information Technology: New Generations, ITNG 2015, art. no. 7113466, pp. 163-168. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84936804972&doi=10.1109%2fITNG.2015.31&partnerID=40&md5=4582c188d80592a79a0f790b73e5c61b\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ITNG.2015.31\
AFFILIATIONS: Center of Excellence in Information Assurance, King Saud University, Saudi Arabia; \
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang, Selangor, 43400, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: In this paper, we have proposed the design of an efficient computer forensics investigation framework. The proposed framework improves the investigation efficiency using Data Warehouse (DW) concept, which provides a selective evidence identification, collection and analysis. So, only relevant data is investigated instead of investigating the entire user data. The proposed framework consists of a Data Warehouse Engine (DWE) to selectively identify, collect and analyze digital evidences from multiple digital resources. A Digital Evidence Preservation (DEP) mechanism is also introduced for preservation of the collected digital evidences whose authenticity is ensured using cryptographic techniques. An access control mechanism is implemented to allow only authorized investigator to access the preserved digital evidences. The DEP mechanism provides court of law with a Secure Forensic Audit Trial (SFAT) that helps in tracking happened activities on the collected evidences for ensuring the authenticity and reliability of the presented digital evidence. \'a9 2015 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Access control;  and reliability;  Authenticity;  Computer forensics;  Data warehouse;  Digital evidence;  Efficiency\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 762\
Zhang, Y., Liu, Q.-Z., Li, T., Wu, L.-H., Shi, C.\
56747728600;35230360300;57003831600;56593901500;57199904466;\
Research and development of memory forensics\
(2015) Ruan Jian Xue Bao/Journal of Software, 26 (5), pp. 1151-1172. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84930068150&doi=10.13328%2fj.cnki.jos.004821&partnerID=40&md5=ce253b76d2a4835697c9e175bdc41d76\
\
DOI: 10.13328/j.cnki.jos.004821\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Hainan Normal University, Haikou, 571158, China; \
Department of Computer Science, Sam Houston State UniversitySam Houston State, United States; \
College of Computer Science, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 610065, China\
ABSTRACT: Cyber attacks and cybercrimes that run stealthy in computer memory make the traditional file system-based computer forensics tasks difficult to be carried out effectively, and thus become a serious security threat. As an important branch of computer forensics, memory forensics is an effective way to combat evasive cyber attacks and cybercrimes. It extracts the evidence of cyber attacks and cybercrimes by comprehensively obtaining and analyzing memory data left by attackers. In recent years, the memory forensics which has drawn sustained attention of the security community, and undergone rapid development with wide range of applications, plays an irreplaceable role in the network incident response and cybercrime investigations. This paper first reviews the origin and evolution processes of memory forensics research, followed by introduction of the key mechanism of operating system memory management. It then explores the memory data acquisition and analysis methods, and summarizes the latest memory forensics technology. The paper concludes with a discussion of the existing problems of current memory forensics, and outlook of the trends and further research directions of memory forensics. \'a9 Copyright 2015, Institute of Software, the Chinese Academy of Sciences. All right reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyber attack;  Cyber crime;  Incident response;  Memory forensic;  Network security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 763 **SELECTED** SID: 45\
Yeboah-Boateng, E.O., Akwa-Bonsu, E.\
57192181607;57192200011;\
Digital forensic investigations: Issues of intangibility, complications and inconsistencies in cyber-crimes\
(2015) Journal of Cyber Security and Mobility, 4 (2-3), pp. 87-104. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85000839156&doi=10.13052%2fjcsm2245-1439.425&partnerID=40&md5=64e80967232b5db2af73c0a0369fd4ed\
\
DOI: 10.13052/jcsm2245-1439.425\
AFFILIATIONS: Ghana Technology University College (GTUC), Ghana; \
Detectware Limited, Ghana\
ABSTRACT: The use of the Internet and computing resources as vital business tools continue to gain prominence day-by-day. Computing resources are utilized to create innovative and value-added products and services. Associated with this trend is the extent of cyber-crimes committed against or using computers. Experts anticipate that the extent and severity of cyber-attacks have increased in recent times and are likely to explode, unless some mitigation measures are instituted to curb the menace. As a response to the growth of cyber-crimes, the field of digital forensics has emerged. Digital forensic investigations have evolved with the passage of time and it's impacted by many externalities. A number of key challenges ought to be addressed, such as the intangibility, complications and inconsistencies associated with the investigations and presentation of prosecutorial artefacts. The digital evidence is usually intangible in nature, such as an electronic pulse or magnetic charge. The question is how can the intangibility of computer crime complicate the digital forensic investigations? To what extent can inconsistencies during the investigation mar the permissibility or admissibility of the evidence? This study is an experimentally exploratory set-up with virtual systems subjected to some malware exploits. Using live response tools, we collected data and analyzed the payloads and the infected systems. Utilizing triage information, memory and disk images were collected for analysis. We also carried out reverse engineering to decompose the payload. The study unearthed the digital truth about malwares and cyber-criminal activities, whilst benchmarking with standard procedures for presenting court admissible digital evidence. The timelines of activities on infected systems were reconstructed. The study demonstrated that externalities of intangibility, complications and inconsistencies can easily mar digital forensic investigations or even bring the entire process to an abrupt end. Further studies would be carried out to demonstrate other ways perpetrators use in concealing valuable digital evidence in a cyber-crime. \'a9 2016 River Publishers.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Artefacts;  Cyber-crime;  Digital evidence;  Digital Forensic Investigation;  Malwares;  Payload\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 764\
Faheem, M., Kechadi, T., An Le-Khac, N.\
57198178335;6603214509;16175564100;\
The state of the art forensic techniques in mobile cloud environment: A Survey, challenges and current trends\
(2015) International Journal of Digital Crime and Forensics, 7 (2), pp. 1-19. Cited 23 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84937412113&doi=10.4018%2fijdcf.2015040101&partnerID=40&md5=feee35ffd54160ccf12fc91f95c6283a\
\
DOI: 10.4018/ijdcf.2015040101\
AFFILIATIONS: University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland\
ABSTRACT: Smartphones have become popular in recent days due to the accessibility of a wide range of applications. These sophisticated applications demand more computing resources in a resource constraint smartphone. Cloud computing is the motivating factor for the progress of these applications. The emerging mobile cloud computing introduces a new architecture to offload smartphone and utilize cloud computing technology to solve resource requirements. The popularity of mobile cloud computing is an opportunity for misuse and unlawful activities. Therefore, it is a challenging platform for digital forensic investigations due to the nonavailability of methodologies, tools and techniques. The aim of this work is to analyze the forensic tools and methodologies for crime investigation in a mobile cloud platform as it poses challenges in proving the evidence. Copyright \'a9 2015, IGI Global.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud forensics;  Mobile cloud application forensics;  Mobile cloud computing;  Mobile forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 765\
Ding, F., Zhu, G., Yang, J., Xie, J., Shi, Y.-Q.\
56289824200;55839320700;35184690700;57220822918;7404964736;\
Edge perpendicular binary coding for USM sharpening detection\
(2015) IEEE Signal Processing Letters, 22 (3), art. no. 2359033, pp. 327-331. Cited 28 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84907967551&doi=10.1109%2fLSP.2014.2359033&partnerID=40&md5=3065e4e5ab3b0ab1091571140c35d4e8\
\
DOI: 10.1109/LSP.2014.2359033\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark, NJ  07102, United States; \
Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, GD 518055, China\
ABSTRACT: Unsharp masking (USM) sharpening is a basic technique for image manipulation and editing. In recent years, the detection of USM sharpening has attracted attention from image forensics point of view. After USM sharpening, overshoot artifacts, which shape image texture, are generated along image edges. By utilizing the special characteristic of the texture modification caused by the USM sharpening, a novel method called edge perpendicular binary coding is proposed in this letter to detect USM sharpening. Extensive experiments have been conducted to show the superiority of the proposed method over the existing methods. \'a9 2014 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Image forensics;  Overshoot artifact;  Sharpening detection;  Unsharp masking sharpening\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 766\
Ding, S.H.H., Fung, B.C.M., Debbabi, M.\
56549376700;9737587400;57203104171;\
A visualizable evidence-driven approach for Authorship attribution\
(2015) ACM Transactions on Information and System Security, 17 (3), art. no. 12, . Cited 16 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84924768546&doi=10.1145%2f2699910&partnerID=40&md5=71a78c844b60f5d83bc679e6ebe099c6\
\
DOI: 10.1145/2699910\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information Studies, McGill University, Montreal, QC  H3A 1X1, Canada; \
Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering, Concordia University, Montreal, QC  H3G 1M8, Canada\
ABSTRACT: The Internet provides an ideal anonymous channel for concealing computer-mediated malicious activities, as the network-based origins of critical electronic textual evidence (e.g., emails, blogs, forum posts, chat logs, etc.) can be easily repudiated. Authorship attribution is the study of identifying the actual author of the given anonymous documents based on the text itself, and for decades, many linguistic stylometry and computational techniques have been extensively studied for this purpose. However, most of the previous research emphasizes promoting the authorship attribution accuracy, and few works have been done for the purpose of constructing and visualizing the evidential traits. In addition, these sophisticated techniques are difficult for cyber investigators or linguistic experts to interpret. In this article, based on the End-to-End Digital Investigation (EEDI) framework, we propose a visualizable evidence-driven approach, namely VEA, which aims at facilitating the work of cyber investigation. Our comprehensive controlled experiment and the stratified experiment on the real-life Enron email dataset demonstrate that our approach can achieve even higher accuracy than traditional methods; meanwhile, its output can be easily visualized and interpreted as evidential traits. In addition to identifying the most plausible author of a given text, our approach also estimates the confidence for the predicted result based on a given identification context and presents visualizable linguistic evidence for each candidate. \'a9 2015 ACM 1094-9224/2015/03-ART12 $15.00.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Authorship attribution;  Computational linguistics;  Cyber forensics;  Text mining\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 767\
Casey, E., Back, G., Barnum, S.\
9843819800;40461022700;8215130600;\
Leveraging CybOX\'99 to standardize representation and exchange of digital forensic information\
(2015) Digital Investigation, 12 (S1), pp. S102-S110. Cited 36 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84924178451&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2015.01.014&partnerID=40&md5=a1efe9cf74af6af358eb94671ced5531\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2015.01.014\
AFFILIATIONS: MITRE Corporation, 7525 Colshire Drive, McLean, VA  22102-7539, United States\
ABSTRACT: With the growing number of digital forensic tools and the increasing use of digital forensics in various contexts, including incident response and cyber threat intelligence, there is a pressing need for a widely accepted standard for representing and exchanging digital forensic information. Such a standard representation can support correlation between different data sources, enabling more effective and efficient querying and analysis of digital evidence. This work summarizes the strengths and weaknesses of existing schemas, and proposes the open-source CybOX schema as a foundation for storing and sharing digital forensic information. The suitability of CybOX for representing objects and relationships that are common in forensic investigations is demonstrated with examples involving digital evidence. The capability to represent provenance by leveraging CybOX is also demonstrated, including specifics of the tool used to process digital evidence and the resulting output. An example is provided of an ongoing project that uses CybOX to record the state of a system before and after an event in order to capture cause and effect information that can be useful for digital forensics. An additional open-source schema and associated ontology called Digital Forensic Analysis eXpression (DFAX) is proposed that provides a layer of domain specific information overlaid on CybOX. DFAX extends the capability of CybOX to represent more abstract forensic-relevant actions, including actions performed by subjects and by forensic examiners, which can be useful for sharing knowledge and supporting more advanced forensic analysis. DFAX can be used in combination with other existing schemas for representing identity information (CIQ), and location information (KML). This work also introduces and leverages initial steps of a Unified Cyber Ontology (UCO) effort to abstract and express concepts/constructs that are common across the cyber domain. \'a9 2015 The Authors.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: CybOX;  DFAX;  DFXML;  Digital forensic;  Digital forensic ontology;  Digital forensics;  Standard representation;  XML\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 768\
Al-Dhaqm, A.M.R., Othman, S.H., Razak, S.A., Ngadi, A.\
56516988400;36245716100;57202120585;24923511700;\
Towards adapting metamodelling technique for database forensics investigation domain\
(2015) Proceedings - 2014 International Symposium on Biometrics and Security Technologies, ISBAST 2014, art. no. 7013142, pp. 322-327. Cited 13 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84922821800&doi=10.1109%2fISBAST.2014.7013142&partnerID=40&md5=ff06ca9d196c899555c223349c58c5c8\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISBAST.2014.7013142\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Computing, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, Johor, 81310, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: Threats which come from database insiders or database outsiders have formed a big challenge to the protection of integrity and confidentiality in many database systems. To overcome this situation a new domain called a Database Forensic (DBF) has been introduced to specifically investigate these dynamic threats which have posed many problems in Database Management Systems (DBMS) of many organizations. DBF is a process to identify, collect, preserve, analyse, reconstruct and document all digital evidences caused by this challenge. However, until today, this domain is still lacks having a standard and generic knowledge base for its forensic investigation methods / tools due to many issues and challenges in its complex processes. Therefore, this paper will reveal an approach adapted from a software engineering domain called metamodelling which will unify these DBF complex knowledge processes into an artifact, a metamodel (DBF Metamodel). In future, the DBF Metamodel could benefit many DBF investigation users such as database investigators, stockholders, and other forensic teams in offering various possible solutions for their problem domain. \'a9 2014 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Database forensic;  Database forensic investigation;  Metamodel;  Metamodelling;  Model\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 769\
Laurenson, T., MacDonell, S., Wolfe, H.\
55421356400;6701732791;7103348644;\
Towards a standardised strategy to collect and distribute application software artifacts\
(2015) Australian Digital Forensics Conference, ADF 2015, pp. 54-61. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85085043488&doi=10.4225%2f75%2f57b3f5cffb889&partnerID=40&md5=3416a2c40e6a33817854de57ad6bc093\
\
DOI: 10.4225/75/57b3f5cffb889\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Science, School of Business, University of Otago, New Zealand\
ABSTRACT: Reference sets contain known content that are used to identify relevant or filter irrelevant content. Application profiles are a type of reference set that contain digital artifacts associated with application software. An application profile can be compared against a target data set to identify relevant evidence of application usage in a variety of investigation scenarios. The research objective is to design and implement a standardised strategy to collect and distribute application software artifacts using application profiles. An advanced technique for creating application profiles was designed using a formalised differential analysis strategy. The design was implemented in a live differential forensic analysis tool, LiveDiff, to automate and simplify data collection. A storage mechanism was designed based on a previously standardised forensic data abstraction. The design was implemented in a new data abstraction, Application Profile XML (APXML), to provide storage, distribution and automated processing of collected artifacts. \'a9 2015 Australian Digital Forensics Conference, ADF 2015. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Application profiles;  Application software;  Differential analysis;  Digital Forensic XML;  Reverse engineering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 770\
Gee, H., Laurenson, T., Wolfe, H.\
57216859986;55421356400;7103348644;\
Improving the detection and validation of inland revenue numbers\
(2015) Australian Digital Forensics Conference, ADF 2015, pp. 62-69. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85085000938&doi=10.4225%2f75%2f57b3f6edfb88a&partnerID=40&md5=f10f6e3a4b592a057ff2426cb5e2fc5c\
\
DOI: 10.4225/75/57b3f6edfb88a\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Science, School of Business, University of Otago, Otago, New Zealand\
ABSTRACT: Forensic analysis commonly involves searching an investigation target for personal identifiable information. An Inland Revenue Department (IRD) number is used for taxation purposes in New Zealand and can provide evidence of perpetrator identity, transaction information or electronic fraud. This research has designed and implemented a bulk_extractor feature scanner to detect and validate IRD numbers (features). The IRD scanner has been tested on a known data set to ensure tool functionality. A large real world data set was then used to determine scanner effectiveness in a realistic investigation scenario. Real world data set testing highlighted a high number of unrelated features detected by the scanner. To combat this, a novel post-processing technique was implemented to identify forensically interesting IRD numbers by performing feature context searching. The post-processing findings proved that feature context searching is an effective data reduction technique that identified a low number of directly relevant IRD numbers. \'a9 2015 Australian Digital Forensics Conference, ADF 2015. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: bulk_extractor;  Digital forensic analysis;  Inland Revenue number;  IRD;  Personally Identifiable Information\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 771\
Schmid, M.R., Iqbal, F., Fung, B.C.M.\
56768813800;35788088300;9737587400;\
E-mail authorship attribution using customized associative classification\
(2015) Proceedings of the Digital Forensic Research Conference, DFRWS 2015 USA, pp. S116-S126. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068723021&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2015.05.012&partnerID=40&md5=a1a0012b2be983998c6aee52aaffe6cb\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2015.05.012\
AFFILIATIONS: Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering, Concordia UniversityQC, Canada; \
College of Technological Innovation, Zayed University, United Arab Emirates; \
School of Information Studies, McGill UniversityQC, Canada\
ABSTRACT: E-mail communication is often abused for conducting social engineering attacks including spamming, phishing, identity theft and for distributing malware. This is largely attributed to the problem of anonymity inherent in the standard electronic mail protocol. In the literature, authorship attribution is studied as a text categorization problem where the writing styles of individuals are modeled based on their previously written sample documents. The developed model is employed to identify the most plausible writer of the text. Unfortunately, most existing studies focus solely on improving predictive accuracy and not on the inherent value of the evidence collected. In this study, we propose a customized associative classification technique, a popular data mining method, to address the authorship attribution problem. Our approach models the unique writing style features of a person, measures the associativity of these features and produces an intuitive classifier. The results obtained by conducting experiments on a real dataset reveal that the presented method is very effective. \'a9 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anonymity;  Associative classification;  Authorship;  Crime investigation;  Data mining;  Rule mining;  Writeprint\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 772\
Zawoad, S., Hasan, R., Grimes, J.\
55734641700;8529353900;56769120400;\
LINCS: Towards building a trustworthy litigation hold enabled cloud storage system\
(2015) Proceedings of the Digital Forensic Research Conference, DFRWS 2015 USA, pp. S55-S67. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068680803&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2015.05.014&partnerID=40&md5=79d40d37a523a53fc64ca17b71076042\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2015.05.014\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Alabama, Birmingham, United States\
ABSTRACT: Litigation holds are inevitable parts of modern civil lawsuits that mandate an organization to preserve all forms of documents related to a lawsuit. In current data storage models, this includes documents stored in clouds. However, due to the fundamental natures of today's clouds, incorporating a trustworthy litigation hold management system is very challenging. To make the situation more complicated, defendants or plaintiffs may collude with the cloud service provider (CSP) to manipulate the documents under the hold. Serious consequences can follow if a litigant party fails to comply with the litigation hold for evidence stored in the cloud, resulting in legal sanctions for spoliation. This will not only harm the reputation of an organization but also levy of sanctions, such as fines, penalties, etc. In this paper, we define a model of trustworthy litigation hold management for cloud-based storage systems and identify the key security properties. Based on the model, we propose a trustworthy LIitigation hold eNabled Cloud Storage (LINCS) system. We show that LINCS can provide the required security properties in a strong adversarial scenario, where a plaintiff or defendant colludes with a malicious CSP. Our prototype implementation reveals that the performance overhead of using LINCS is very low (average 1.4% for the user), which suggests that such litigation hold enabled storage system can be integrated with real clouds. \'a9 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud forensics;  Cloud security;  Litigation hold;  Regulatory compliance;  Storage security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 773\
Grier, J., Richard, G.G., III\
45561300400;7102387624;\
Rapid forensic imaging of large disks with sifting collectors\
(2015) Proceedings of the Digital Forensic Research Conference, DFRWS 2015 USA, pp. S34-S44. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068657917&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2015.05.006&partnerID=40&md5=87ac1f153fb4a0bbc40108310c127e53\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2015.05.006\
AFFILIATIONS: Grier Forensics, United States; \
Department of Computer Science, University of New Orleans, New Orleans, LA  70148, United States\
ABSTRACT: We present a new approach to digital forensic evidence acquisition and disk imaging called sifting collectors that images only those regions of a disk with expected forensic value. Sifting collectors produce a sector-by-sector, bit-identical AFF v3 image of selected disk regions that can be mounted and is fully compatible with existing forensic tools and methods. In our test cases, they have achieved an acceleration of >3\'d7 while collecting >95% of the evidence, and in some cases we have observed acceleration of up to 13\'d7. Sifting collectors challenge many conventional notions about forensic acquisition and may help tame the volume challenge by enabling examiners to rapidly acquire and easily store large disks without sacrificing the many benefits of imaging. \'a9 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Forensic acquisition;  Partial imaging;  Sifting collectors;  Triage\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 774\
Casey, E., Back, G., Barnum, S.\
9843819800;40461022700;8215130600;\
Leveraging CybOX\'99 to standardize representation and exchange of digital forensic information\
(2015) Proceedings of the Digital Forensic Research Conference, DFRWS 2015 EU, pp. S102-S110. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068642119&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2015.01.014&partnerID=40&md5=1ba05d0a567805877e0a8c4cedcf4320\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2015.01.014\
AFFILIATIONS: MITRE Corporation, 7525 Colshire Drive, McLean, VA  22102-7539, United States\
ABSTRACT: With the growing number of digital forensic tools and the increasing use of digital forensics in various contexts, including incident response and cyber threat intelligence, there is a pressing need for a widely accepted standard for representing and exchanging digital forensic information. Such a standard representation can support correlation between different data sources, enabling more effective and efficient querying and analysis of digital evidence. This work summarizes the strengths and weaknesses of existing schemas, and proposes the open-source CybOX schema as a foundation for storing and sharing digital forensic information. The suitability of CybOX for representing objects and relationships that are common in forensic investigations is demonstrated with examples involving digital evidence. The capability to represent provenance by leveraging CybOX is also demonstrated, including specifics of the tool used to process digital evidence and the resulting output. An example is provided of an ongoing project that uses CybOX to record the state of a system before and after an event in order to capture cause and effect information that can be useful for digital forensics. An additional open-source schema and associated ontology called Digital Forensic Analysis eXpression (DFAX) is proposed that provides a layer of domain specific information overlaid on CybOX. DFAX extends the capability of CybOX to represent more abstract forensic-relevant actions, including actions performed by subjects and by forensic examiners, which can be useful for sharing knowledge and supporting more advanced forensic analysis. DFAX can be used in combination with other existing schemas for representing identity information (CIQ), and location information (KML). This work also introduces and leverages initial steps of a Unified Cyber Ontology (UCO) effort to abstract and express concepts/constructs that are common across the cyber domain. \'a9 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: CybOX;  DFAX;  DFXML;  Digital forensic ontology;  Digital forensic XML;  Digital forensics;  Standard representation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 775\
Wagner, J., Rasin, A., Grier, J.\
56768652900;9738559600;45561300400;\
Database forensic analysis through internal structure carving\
(2015) Proceedings of the Digital Forensic Research Conference, DFRWS 2015 USA, pp. S106-S115. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85052380297&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2015.05.013&partnerID=40&md5=60f78acc36c1507bb46a67ad71351bdf\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2015.05.013\
AFFILIATIONS: DePaul University, Chicago, IL, United States; \
Grier Forensics, United States\
ABSTRACT: Forensic tools assist analysts with recovery of both the data and system events, even from corrupted storage. These tools typically rely on \'93file carving\'94 techniques to restore files after metadata loss by analyzing the remaining raw file content. A significant amount of sensitive data is stored and processed in relational databases thus creating the need for database forensic tools that will extend file carving solutions to the database realm. Raw database storage is partitioned into individual \'93pages\'94 that cannot be read or presented to the analyst without the help of the database itself. Furthermore, by directly accessing raw database storage, we can reveal things that are normally hidden from database users. There exists a number of database-specific tools developed for emergency database recovery, though not usually for forensic analysis of a database. In this paper, we present a universal tool that seamlessly supports many different databases, rebuilding table and other data content from any remaining storage fragments on disk or in memory. We define an approach for automatically (with minimal user intervention) reverse engineering storage in new databases, for detecting volatile data changes and discovering user action artifacts. Finally, we empirically verify our tool's ability to recover both deleted and partially corrupted data directly from the internal storage of different databases. \'a9 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Database forensics;  Database storage modeling;  File carving;  Memory analysis;  Stochastic analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 776\
Balzarotti, D., Di Pietro, R., Villani, A.\
23395942900;57216385914;54586171500;\
The impact of GPU-assisted malware on memory forensics: A case study\
(2015) Proceedings of the Digital Forensic Research Conference, DFRWS 2015 USA, pp. S16-S24. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85015996449&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2015.05.010&partnerID=40&md5=166ca2a18b33f4a5ac43aa01c20c4cdd\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2015.05.010\
AFFILIATIONS: Eurecom, Sophia Antipolis, France; \
Bell Labs, Paris, France; \
Department of Mathematics and Physics, University of Roma Tre, Rome, Italy; \
Department of Maths, University of Padua, Padua, Italy\
ABSTRACT: In this paper we assess the impact of GPU-assisted malware on memory forensics. In particular, we first introduce four different techniques that malware can adopt to hide its presence. We then present a case study on a very popular family of Intel GPUs, and we analyze in which cases the forensic analysis can be performed using only the host's memory and in which cases it requires access to the GPU's memory. Our analysis shows that, by offloading some computation to the GPUs, it is possible to successfully hide some malicious behavior. Furthermore, we provide suggestions and insights about which artifacts could be used to detect the presence of GPU-assisted malware. \'a9 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Forensics;  Direct Rendering Manager;  Graphic processing units;  Malware;  Memory analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 777\
Miaoui, Y., Boudriga, N., Abaoub, E.\
55932225500;6701876349;23097302000;\
Insurance versus investigation driven approach for the computation of optimal security investment\
(2015) Pacific Asia Conference on Information Systems, PACIS 2015 - Proceedings, . Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85011105161&partnerID=40&md5=474a5762e6f026f7bf59fcd6aed9c676\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Communication Networks and Security Research Lab., University of Carthage, Tunisia; \
College of Adminstrative and Financial Sciences, Taif University, Saudi Arabia\
ABSTRACT: Several research works have proposed economic and financial models to determine the optimal amount of investment in the security of information systems, showing the use of diverse techniques such as Game Theory (Grossklags et al. 2008), Utility Mdodels (Huang and Behara 2013; Miaoui et al. 2014), Return on Information Security Investment (Sonnenreich 2006), and Value at Risk (J. Wang et al. 2008). While many of these works showed the importance of investing in both self-protection and Cyber insurance (to reduce and transfer the residual risk of loss to insurance companies), none of them has considered the importance of security investment in forensic investigation to support insurance claims, ensure a better reimbursement of loss in case of security breach, and increase the return of investment in security. We propose in this paper to distribute the investment in information security into investment in Self-Defense to protect against security attacks, investment in Insurance to transfer the residual risk of loss to insurance companies, and investment in Forensic Readiness to maximize the firm's potential to collect appropriate digital evidence, and generate provable insurance claims about occurred security breaches. An economic model based on the theory of utility is designed to compute the optimal total investment, taking into consideration the interdependence between the aforementioned three investments. An analysis is conducted to assess the variation of the optimal investments in self-defense and forensic readiness, and the cost of residual risk, with respect to the rate of insurance reimbursement, security vulnerabilities, and potential financial loss.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyber security insurance;  Financial security;  Forensics readiness;  Information security;  Optimal investment;  Risk minimization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 778\
\'8auteva, N., Mileva, A., Loleski, M.\
56716271100;55538690000;56716577100;\
Finding forensic evidence for several web attacks\
(2015) International Journal of Internet Technology and Secured Transactions, 6 (1), pp. 64-78. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84953376144&doi=10.1504%2fIJITST.2015.073938&partnerID=40&md5=47f45098e17d58cac47e20a0064d3e25\
\
DOI: 10.1504/IJITST.2015.073938\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Computer Science, University Goce Del\uc0\u269 ev, \'8atip, North Macedonia; \
Forensic Department, Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Macedonia, Skopje, North Macedonia\
ABSTRACT: Symantec Internet Security Threat Report 2014 is showing a horrified fact, that when an attacker looked for a site to compromise, one in eight sites made it relatively easy to gain access. Digital forensics is one of our biggest line of defense against cyber criminals, because it provides evidence against them. For attacks against web applications, web application forensics is the branch which gives most of the answers. First, the victim machine usually gives some data, which are then used for identifying possible suspects, and this is followed by forensic analysis of suspects' devices, like computers, laptops, tablets, and even smart phones. In this paper, we use an attack scenario against the known vulnerable web application WackoPicko, using several web attacks: SQL injection, stored and reflected XSS, remote file inclusion, and commandline injection. We use post-mortem computer forensic analysis of attacker and victim machine to find some artefacts in them, which can help to identify and possible to reconstruct the attack, and most important, to obtain valid evidence which holds in court. We assume that the attacker was careless and did not perform any anti-forensic techniques on its machine. Copyright \'a9 2015 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Command-line injection;  File inclusion;  Reflected XSS;  SQL injection;  Stored XSS;  Web application forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 779\
Zawoad, S., Hasan, R.\
55734641700;8529353900;\
A trustworthy cloud forensics environment\
(2015) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 462, pp. 271-285. Cited 11 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84951849070&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-24123-4_16&partnerID=40&md5=eadc33a48da848b362ef2195cf0b95b1\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-24123-4_16\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, United States\
ABSTRACT: The rapid migration from traditional computing and storage models to cloud computing environments has made it necessary to support reliable forensic investigations in the cloud. However, current cloud computing environments often lack support for forensic investigations and the trustworthiness of evidence is often questionable because of the possibility of collusion between dishonest cloud providers, users and forensic investigators. This chapter presents a forensics-enabled cloud environment that supports trustworthy forensics in cloud environments. The forensic environment is designed on top of the OpenStack open-source cloud operating system. The environment enables cloud service providers to provide trusted digital forensics support to customers and forensic investigators, and enables customers to establish their own forensics-friendly infrastructures without making significant financial investments. \'a9 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing 2015.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud computing;  Cloud forensics;  Trustworthy environment\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 780\
Zareen, M.S., Aslam, B., Akhlaq, M.\
56102318900;24174424400;24174116300;\
Criteria for validating secure wiping tools\
(2015) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 462, pp. 321-339. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84951804824&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-24123-4_19&partnerID=40&md5=c372bd73b5c01f38e966eaf99f306836\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-24123-4_19\
AFFILIATIONS: National University of Sciences and Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan\
ABSTRACT: The validation of forensic tools is an important requirement in digital forensics. The National Institute of Standards and Technology has defined standards for many digital forensic tools. However, a standard has not yet been specified for secure wiping tools. This chapter defines secure wiping functionality criteria for NTFS specific to Windows 7 and magnetic hard drives. The criteria were created based on the remnants of user actions \'96 file creation, modification and deletion \'96 in $MFT records, the $LogFile and the hard disk. Of particular relevance is the fact that the $LogFile, which holds considerable forensic artifacts of user actions, is not wiped properly by many tools. The use of the proposed functionality criteria is demonstrated in an evaluation of the Eraser secure wiping tool. \'a9 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing 2015.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: $LogFile forensics;  NTFS;  Secure wiping functionality;  Tool validation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 781\
Oyelami, O., Olivier, M.\
57021494100;7101741068;\
Using yin\'92s approach to case studies as a paradigm for conducting examinations\
(2015) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 462, pp. 45-59. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84951799447&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-24123-4_3&partnerID=40&md5=954c4fb525e99e290a20d4db3a457165\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-24123-4_3\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: At the heart of any forensic science discipline is the need to ensure that a method applied in the discipline is based on a factual foundation or valid scientific method. In digital forensics, the aim of an examination is to make consistent inferences about events with high certainty. The highest state of inference is a determination of causality. Two scientific methods that can be applied in digital forensic examinations to determine causality are experimentation and case studies. Experimentation has been used in a range of scientific studies, but there are situations where it is not always possible to conduct experiments. In these cases, the only option is to carry out case studies. A case study approach is not widely used in the natural sciences, but it has been accepted as a valid method that can produce insightful results in digital forensic examinations. This chapter focuses on conducting digital evidence examinations using Yin\'92s approach to case studies as a paradigm. The goal is to show that Yin\'92s case study approach can be applied suitably and that it is useful in digital forensic settings. \'a9 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing 2015.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Case study;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensic science;  Examination\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 782\
Andriotis, P., Tryfonas, T., Oikonomou, G., King, I.\
55598108100;23006808300;14632503100;7102275781;\
A framework for describing multimedia circulation in a smartphone ecosystem\
(2015) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 462, pp. 251-267. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84951788410&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-24123-4_15&partnerID=40&md5=bb16fcc4d62fa0cdf4af23f5d1f56f99\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-24123-4_15\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Bristol, Bristol, United Kingdom; \
Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong\
ABSTRACT: Contemporary mobile devices allow almost unrestricted sharing of multimedia and other types of files. However, because smartphones and tablets can easily access the Internet and exchange files wirelessly, they have also become useful tools for criminals who perform illegal activities such as sharing contraband and distributing illegal images. Thus, the need to investigate the source and destination of a multimedia file that resides in the internal memory of a smartphone is apparent. This chapter presents a framework for illustrating and visualizing the flow of digital images extracted from Android smartphones during a forensic investigation. The approach uses \'93big data\'94 concepts to facilitate the processing of diverse (semi-structured) evidence from mobile devices and extends the idea of digital evidence bags. The data used for evaluation was obtained by running experiments that involved image exchange through channels such as Bluetooth, Internet and cloud services. The study presents information about the locations where evidence resides and uses graph databases to store metadata and to visualize the relationships that connect images with apps and events. \'a9 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing 2015.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Analysis;  Android forensics;  Content;  Graph database;  NoSQL\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 783\
Tsimperidis, I., Katos, V., Clarke, N.\
57192906260;23097661700;8961310300;\
Language-independent gender identification through keystroke analysis\
(2015) Information and Computer Security, 23 (3), pp. 286-301. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84946079338&doi=10.1108%2fICS-05-2014-0032&partnerID=40&md5=62eaac4e6d0ee9cca5f28bb94df50b45\
\
DOI: 10.1108/ICS-05-2014-0032\
AFFILIATIONS: Information Security and Incident Response Unit, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Democritus University of Thrace, Greece; \
Centre for Security, Communications and Network Research, Plymouth University, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to investigate the feasibility of identifying the gender of an author by measuring the keystroke duration when typing a message. Design/methodology/approach - Three classifiers were constructed and tested. The authors empirically evaluated the effectiveness of the classifiers by using empirical data. The authors used primary data as well as a publicly available dataset containing keystrokes from a different language to validate the language independence assumption. Findings - The results of this paper indicate that it is possible to identify the gender of an author by analyzing keystroke durations with a probability of success in the region of 70 per cent. Research limitations/implications - The proposed approach was validated with a limited number of participants and languages, yet the statistical tests show the significance of the results. However, this approach will be further tested with other languages. Practical implications - Having the ability to identify the gender of an author of a certain piece of text has value in digital forensics, as the proposed method will be a source of circumstantial evidence for "putting fingers on keyboard" and for arbitrating cases where the true origin of a message needs to be identified. Social implications - If the proposed method is included as part of a text-composing system (such as e-mail, and instant messaging applications), it could increase trust toward the applications that use it and may also work as a deterrent for crimes involving forgery. Originality/value - The proposed approach combines and adapts techniques from the domains of biometric authentication and data classification. \'a9 Emerald Group Publishing Limited.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Bayesian;  Gender recognition;  Keystroke dynamics;  Manhattan classifier;  SVM\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 784\
7th International Conference on Digital Forensics and Cyber Crime, ICDF2C 2015\
(2015) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, LNICST, 157, pp. 1-216. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84945960054&partnerID=40&md5=e224146a19af19fc75dd7aae43f0e002\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 20 papers. The special focus in this conference is on Digital Forensics Education, Computational Forensics, Network and Cloud Forensics. The topics include: A multidisciplinary curriculum model; development and initial user evaluation of a virtual crime scene simulator including digital evidence; detection of frame duplication type of forgery in digital video using sub-block based features; forensically sound retrieval and recovery of images from GPU memory; advanced techniques for reconstruction of incomplete network data; forensic analysis and remote evidence recovery from syncthing; a survey of international cooperation in digital investigations; explanatory case study of the authur pendragon cyber threat; Smartphone verification and user profiles linking across social networks by camera fingerprinting; exploring the effectiveness of digital forensics tools on the Sony playstation vita and reliability research about evidence acquisition method of apple MAC device.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 785\
Mahmood, W., Jahankhani, H., Ozkaya, A.\
56938298600;55970576100;56938298200;\
Cloud forensics challenges faced by forensic investigators\
(2015) Communications in Computer and Information Science, 534, pp. 74-82. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84945926365&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-23276-8_7&partnerID=40&md5=aaea3ad0203e70ceeee74371e4928869\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-23276-8_7\
AFFILIATIONS: GSM-London, London, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Cloud computing has generated significant interest in both academia and industry, but it is still an evolving paradigm. Cloud computing services are also, a popular target for malicious activities; resulting to the exponential increase of cyber attacks. Digital evidence is the evidence that is collected from the suspect\'92s workstations or electronic medium that could be used in order to assist computer forensics investigations. Cloud forensics involves digital evidence collection in the cloud environment. The current established forensic procedures and process models require major changes in order to be acceptable in cloud environment. This paper, aims to assess challenges forensic examiners face in tracking down and using digital information stored in the cloud and discuss the importance of education and training to handle, manage and investigate computer evidence. \'a9 Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Challenges of cloud forensics;  Cloud computing;  Cloud forensics;  Computer misuse act;  Cyber security strategy;  Digital evidence\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 786\
Watt, A.C., Slay, J.\
56463620100;15756115700;\
First responders actions to cope with volatile digital evidence\
(2015) International Journal of Electronic Security and Digital Forensics, 7 (4), pp. 381-399. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84943579638&doi=10.1504%2fIJESDF.2015.072182&partnerID=40&md5=64af233f31cc354ad50fd9c967347c64\
\
DOI: 10.1504/IJESDF.2015.072182\
AFFILIATIONS: Centre for Policing, Intelligence and Counter Terrorism, Macquarie University, Sydney, NSW  2109, Australia; \
UNSW Canberra, Australian Defence Force Academy, P.O. Box 7916, Canberra, BC  2610, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Everyday law enforcement officers are executing search warrants and encounter digital devices that form part of the evidence. Agencies are now training first responders to handle upper level searches for relevance, prior to seizure. However problems exist, that this may not locate evidence in a cloud, a container or even a virtual machine. This evidence is essentially volatile in that once the device is turned off, connectivity with the cloud will be lost, encrypted containers will close, virtual machines will cease to operate and drive encryption will be invoked. The once accessible data may now become beyond reach of digital forensic staff, when the credentials to access the data are unknown or not available. This paper has focused on scene actions that need to be considered when staff, specifically first responders are confronted with a device, that could contain evidence that could be lost if the device is shut down. Copyright \'a9 2015 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Computer forensics;  Crime scene;  Digital forensics;  File concealment;  First responder;  Forensic analysis;  Investigative framework;  Live forensic analysis;  Search warrant\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 787\
Machap, K., Abel, M.A., Ganapathy, S.\
56872861400;56872466200;56872547000;\
Overview of anti forensics online anonymity in western countries\
(2015) International Journal of Applied Engineering Research, 10 (69), pp. 60-62. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84942427518&partnerID=40&md5=41c65f1f6c5d189e8c2801c6882514e0\
\
AFFILIATIONS: School of computer science and Information Technology, Linton University College, Mantin, Negeri Sembilan, Malaysia; \
School of Computer Science and Information Technology, Institut Teknologi Pertama, Mantin, Negeri Sembilan, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: Anti-forensics is the collective methodologies used to affect the amount, existence and quality of evidences of a cybercrime negatively. Anti-forensics is aimed at impeding computer forensic investigations, by hiding or altering digital evidences, in order to bar it from being used in legal proceedings, or make it too costly and time consuming to examine. This research focuses on some of the techniques used to make a user appear \'93invisible\'94 on the web. It is worthy of note that the list of techniques explained in this research is not exhaustive, as there are new techniques discovered on daily bases. The paper presents the review of current literature review on Anti-Forensics security in certain western countries. \'a9 Research India Publications.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anonymity;  Internet protocol;  TOR;  Traceback\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 788\
Baggili, I., Breitinger, F.\
37261105300;44260893600;\
Data sources for advancing cyber forensics: What the social world has to offer\
(2015) AAAI Spring Symposium - Technical Report, SS, pp. 6-9. Cited 15 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84940839441&partnerID=40&md5=3f18faa084a3a4e704625ebec34e9c54\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Computer Science, University of New Haven Cyber Forensics Research and Education Lab, United States\
ABSTRACT: Cyber Forensics is fairly new as a scientific discipline and deals with the acquisition, authentication and analysis of digital evidence. One of the biggest challenges in this domain has thus far been real data sources that are available for experimentation. Only a few data sources exist at the time writing of this paper. The authors in this paper deliberate how social media data sources may impact future directions in cyber forensics, and describe how these data sources may be used as new digital forensic artifacts in future investigations. The authors also deliberate how the scientific community may leverage publically accessible social media data to advance the state of the art in Cyber Forensics. Copyright \'a9 2015, Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 789\
Chang, Y.-T., Teng, K.-C., Tso, Y.-C., Wang, S.-J.\
56182569700;56747474000;55204867300;7410333676;\
Jailbroken iPhone forensics for the investigations and controversy to digital evidence\
(2015) Journal of Computers (Taiwan), 26 (2), pp. 19-33. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84938319045&partnerID=40&md5=9a8456f8650c99311dab5fc50b94ac3d\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Management, Central Police University, Taoyuan, 33304, Taiwan\
ABSTRACT: The smartphone has gradually become an indispensable assistant in our daily life. Apple's iPhone is one of the most popular smartphones. However, once the iPhone has become a criminal tool for assisting the offender, the electromagnetic record in the iPhone will become the key digital evidence to reconstruct the scene of the crime. There is a high probability that offenders perform the Jailbreak procedure in order to gain more powerful functions on iPhones. When the Jailbreak work has processed, this will make the implementation of digital forensic extraction smoother. Otherwise, there is controversy surrounding iPhone evidencehandling if the forensic investigators perform the Jailbreak procedure for the non-Jailbroken iPhone just to make the implementation of digital forensic extraction easier. Therefore, this paper observes the diversification of iPhone evidence via the comparison between before and after performing Jailbreak procedure by using XRY forensic commercial tool kit and Apple iTunes logical extraction. We not only clarify the controversy of whether the key-evidence on the iPhone after its Jailbroken will be varied or not, but also provide a summary report about iPhone evidence and digital forensics as a court reference.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Apple iTunes;  Digital forensics;  Digital investigation;  iOS;  iPhone;  Jailbreak\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 790\
Wu, T.-S., Lin, H.-Y.\
7404816219;57142826700;\
Data protection for computer forensics using cryptographic mechanisms\
(2015) Applied Mathematics and Information Sciences, 9 (2), pp. 989-1001. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84930976450&doi=10.12785%2famis%2f090250&partnerID=40&md5=f887d53faa42dd1baa3036ade17e68b0\
\
DOI: 10.12785/amis/090250\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, National Taiwan Ocean University, Keelung, 202, Taiwan\
ABSTRACT: Data protection is an important issue for computer forensics in a digitalized world. We construct secure data protection methods by adopting cryptographic building blocks. In our proposed scheme, an investigating authority delegates a group composed of n judicial policemen to collect digital evidence. Any t or more of them can cooperatively generate valid authenticated evidence for collected ordinary evidence on behalf of the investigating authority. To ensure confidentiality, the authenticated evidence can only be decrypted and verified by a designated investigator of Investigation of Bureau, Ministry of Justice (MJIB). For the litigation process, the designated investigator is capable of further converting the authenticated evidence into an ordinary one and giving it to a judge or prosecutor without leaking the information of his private key. We also present a variant with message linkages for benefiting the encryption of a large message. To guarantee the feasibility of practical implementation, we show that our construction achieves the IND-CCA2 and the EF-CMA security in the random oracle model. \'a9 2015 NSP.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Cryptographic mechanism;  Data protection;  Random oracle;  Security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 791\
Kobayashi, N., Sasaki, R.\
56675132600;55859781100;\
Proposal and evaluation of an evidence preservation method for use in a common number system\
(2015) International Journal of Electronic Commerce Studies, 6 (1), pp. 51-68. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84930691827&doi=10.7903%2fijecs.1394&partnerID=40&md5=fe5f478f1ca792da06a37c3820030a66\
\
DOI: 10.7903/ijecs.1394\
AFFILIATIONS: Tokyo Denki University, 5 Senju-Asahicho, Adachi-Ku, Tokyo, 120-8551, Japan\
ABSTRACT: In recent years, the introduction of a common number system has been planned by the government of Japan, and the possibility of illegal use of personal information in this system has been considered. Access records in log files are analyzed when possible illegal use is being investigated. Therefore, a method by which to maintain the integrity of the log file becomes a significant problem because alteration of digital data is very easy. Moreover, in the case of a common number system, a method that keeps verification secure as well as secret from certain organizations is needed, because various organizations will have access to the common number system. In the present paper, we propose an evidence preservation method that enables privacy and concealment to be maintained by introducing a cipher system and a hysteresis signature.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Common number system;  Digital forensic;  Digital signature;  Evidence preservation;  Hysteresis signature\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 792\
Povar, D., Saibharath, Geethakumari, G.\
46661973200;56669715400;15768843300;\
Real-time digital forensic triaging for cloud data analysis using MapReduce on Hadoop framework\
(2015) International Journal of Electronic Security and Digital Forensics, 7 (2), pp. 119-133. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84930424793&doi=10.1504%2fIJESDF.2015.069602&partnerID=40&md5=5046a2acaa4d4fdb3803e5c39db34621\
\
DOI: 10.1504/IJESDF.2015.069602\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Information Systems, BITS Pilani, Hyderabad Campus, Jawaharnagar, Shameerpet, Hyderabad, Telangana, India\
ABSTRACT: Cloud computing is a relatively new model in the computing world after several computing paradigms like personal, ubiquitous, grid, mobile, and utility computing. Cloud computing is synonymous with virtualisation which is about creating virtual versions of the hardware platform, the operating system or the storage devices. Virtualisation is omnipresent in the cloud environment that poses challenges to implementation of security as well as cybercrime investigation. Techniques used in traditional digital forensics may not be appropriate for timely analysis of large capacity virtual hard disk files. Hence, there is a need for reducing analysis time for cloud crime cases like child pornography, financial frauds, etc. In this paper, we designed and developed a new 'real-time digital forensic analysis process' to minimise the overall processing time of evidence. Using this approach, the investigator can search user specified patterns (for example headers, footers), which can also be used for carving files from evidence data. Copyright \'a9 2015 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud computing;  Cloud crime;  Cloud forensics;  Cybercrime;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensic triage;  Digital forensics;  Virtual machine\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 793\
Shirley, G., Ebenezer, D.\
56662074100;24479696900;\
Contrast enhancement based forensics in digital images against security attack using RSA algorithm\
(2015) ARPN Journal of Engineering and Applied Sciences, 10 (9), pp. 3889-3894. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84930169967&partnerID=40&md5=656ce40952b2b1665cdf3e699439a27a\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, Easwari Engineering College, Chennai, India\
ABSTRACT: RSA algorithm is used to overcome security attack. Neural network classification is used to detect the forgery involved in digital images. Contrast Enhancement is typically used to adjust the global brightness and contrast of digital images. It is significant to detect contrast enhancement for verifying the originality and authenticity of the digital images. The main strategy relies on the blind identification of zero-height gap bins. Two data sets are taken for evaluation, namely, Dataset1 and Dataset2. Dataset1 is the unaltered image and Dataset2 is altered image from the original image. The detection of global contrast enhancement in both the images are determined. The zero-height gap bins in gray level histograms are exploited as identifying features. The probabilities of detection and false alarm determined by thresholds which are calculated as the percentage of the enhanced images correctly classified and that of the unenhanced images incorrectly classified, respectively. The receiver operating characteristic curves are generated for evaluation. The consistency between regional artifacts is checked for detecting image forgeries and locating composition boundaries. \'a9 2006-2015 Asian Research Publishing Network (ARPN).\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Composite image;  Contrast enhancement;  Digital forensics;  Image forgery;  Neural network;  RSA algorithm\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 794\
Goh, J., Thing, V.L.L.\
56179886800;6507064666;\
A hybrid evolutionary algorithm for feature and ensemble selection in image tampering detection\
(2015) International Journal of Electronic Security and Digital Forensics, 7 (1), pp. 76-104. Cited 14 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84925004480&doi=10.1504%2fIJESDF.2015.067996&partnerID=40&md5=eb38585fc42188100df4af9aad150461\
\
DOI: 10.1504/IJESDF.2015.067996\
AFFILIATIONS: Cyber Security and Intelligence Department, Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore\
ABSTRACT: The detection of the presence of tampered images is of significant importance in digital forensics. The problem with image tampering detection is the vast number of features that are currently available in the literature. It is very challenging to determine the best features to correctly characterise these images. This paper proposes a hybrid evolutionary framework to perform a quantitative study to evaluate all features in image tampering for the best feature set. Upon feature evaluation and selection, the classification mechanism must be optimised for good performance. Therefore, in addition to being able to determine an optimal set of features for a classifier, the hybrid framework is capable of determining the optimal multiple classifier ensembles while achieving the best classification performance in terms of low complexity and high accuracy for image tampering detection. Using a training dataset of only 5% of the dataset, we were able to obtain accuracies of 90.18% on a CASIA 1 dataset with 1,457 test images, 96.21% on a CASIA 2 dataset with 10,200 and 94.64% on a combined CASIA 1 and 2 dataset with 11,657 testing images. The experiment result shows that our image tampering detection can support large-scale digital image evidence authenticity verification with consistent good accuracy. Copyright \'a9 2015 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Evolutionary algorithms;  Image forgery;  Multiple classifiers systems;  Optimal feature selection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 795\
Matsumoto, S., Onitsuka, Y., Kawamoto, J., Sakurai, K.\
55641292000;56502100400;56400585200;7402174117;\
Reconstructing and visualizing evidence of artifact from firefox sessionstorage\
(2015) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 8909, pp. 83-94. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84922128674&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-15087-1_7&partnerID=40&md5=d4c8ad8b09afdfd3ad274e3dd8591d8a\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-15087-1_7\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Systems, Information Technologies and Nanotechnologies, 2-1-22, Momochihama, Fkuuoka, Japan; \
Department of Informatics, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan\
ABSTRACT: Importance of digital forensics is expected to increase in the future. Many of researches on digital forensics are targeted to persistent memory. These researches concerns about the extraction of evidence directly or via filesystem. On the other hand, there is a movement to employ the Web browser supports HTML5 as software platform. In this situation, it is considered that the forensics techniques for extracting evidences from HTML5 browser is important. In this paper, we experimented to retrieve the artifacts left by Web- Storage feature for the Web browser for personal computer from the file system. In addition, we implemented a tool that constructs and visualizes the evidence from the artifacts. \'a9 Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Mobile forensics;  Privacy;  Web browser\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 796\
Shah, J., Malik, L.G.\
56107913700;11339384400;\
Digital forensic in cloudsim\
(2015) Smart Innovation, Systems and Technologies, 31, pp. 563-572. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84919969413&doi=10.1007%2f978-81-322-2205-7_52&partnerID=40&md5=6ed29b4b0c77313e5322cc984be88901\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-81-322-2205-7_52\
AFFILIATIONS: G.H. Raisoni College of Engineering, Nagpur, India\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensic is the method of providing digital evidence in order to prove the crime in digital world. In context of cloud environment the term digital forensics becomes more challenging due to dynamic and decentralized nature of cloud. The research proposes the digital forensic technique using Cloudsim. Cloud simulator is a powerful tool for modeling, simulating and carry out experimentation. This research presents digital forensic technique in context of cloud environment using cloudsim. The scenario of crime is created by hacking the client\'92s sensitive data, which is stored in cloud. The tiled bitmap algorithm is used to detect tampering of database on cloud server which presents the potential evidence. Also the proposed method is used to store the file on cloud server using timestamp and encryption method to avoid hacking. The research focuses on one of the category of crime that is tampering of data on cloud server. \'a9 Springer India 2015.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloudsim;  Tiled bitmap\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 797\
Sammons, J.\
55827537900;\
The Basics of Digital Forensics: The Primer for Getting Started in Digital Forensics: Second Edition\
(2014) The Basics of Digital Forensics: The Primer for Getting Started in Digital Forensics: Second Edition, pp. 1-180. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84942574494&doi=10.1016%2fC2013-0-19364-6&partnerID=40&md5=e2e6c8b3c8fba696f0137301d3e633a1\
\
DOI: 10.1016/C2013-0-19364-6\
AFFILIATIONS: Marshall University, Huntington, WV, United States; \
Department of Integrated Science and Technology, Marshall University, Huntington, WV, United States; \
Appalachian Institute of Digital Evidence, United States\
ABSTRACT: The Basics of Digital Forensics provides a foundation for people new to the digital forensics field. This book teaches you how to conduct examinations by discussing what digital forensics is, the methodologies used, key tactical concepts, and the tools needed to perform examinations. Details on digital forensics for computers, networks, cell phones, GPS, the cloud and the Internet are discussed. Also, learn how to collect evidence, document the scene, and how deleted data can be recovered. The new Second Edition of this book provides you with completely up-to-date real-world examples and all the key technologies used in digital forensics, as well as new coverage of network intrusion response, how hard drives are organized, and electronic discovery. Youll also learn how to incorporate quality assurance into an investigation, how to prioritize evidence items to examine (triage), case processing, and what goes into making an expert witness. The Second Edition also features expanded resources and references, including online resources that keep you current, sample legal documents, and suggested further reading. \'95 Learn what Digital Forensics entails \'95 Build a toolkit and prepare an investigative plan \'95 Understand the common artifacts to look for in an exam \'95 Second Edition features all-new coverage of hard drives, triage, network intrusion response, and electronic discovery; as well as updated case studies, expert interviews, and expanded resources and references. \'a9 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 798\
Ueshige, Y., Sakurai, K.\
6507120240;7402174117;\
Towards "receipt-freeness" in remote biometric authentication\
(2014) Proceedings - 2014 International Conference on Emerging Security Technologies, EST 2014, art. no. 6982766, pp. 8-12. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84921265887&doi=10.1109%2fEST.2014.22&partnerID=40&md5=e4c64aaff79f7151ab49c9677474196a\
\
DOI: 10.1109/EST.2014.22\
AFFILIATIONS: Center for Information and Communication Technology, Nagasaki University, Nagasaki City, Japan; \
Graduate School of Information Science and Electrical Engineering, Kyushu University, Fukuoka City, Japan\
ABSTRACT: Recently, cancelable biometrics, zero-bio, PKI with biometrics, and some related methods have been proposed as remote biometrics. These proposals are discussed in the viewpoint of not forensics but privacy protection. When forensic techniques are abused on the remote biometric authentication systems by third person, he/she can collect information of authentication process, such as stored templates, intermediate calculated data and etc. This situation causes novel privacy issues about excessive collection of information. Therefore, we define "receipt-freeness" of biometric authentication protocol, from the viewpoint of anti-forensics. As a first step for considering requirements for "receipt-freeness" remote biometric protocols, some related works are analyzed about characteristic of "receipt-freeness." As a result, we show the all protocols do not satisfy "receipt-freeness" except a few situations since the servers of these protocols remain some evidence such as transformed biometric data. \'a9 2014 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: anti-forensics;  protocol;  receipt-freeness;  remote biometric authentication\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 799\
Fr\'fchwirt, P., Kieseberg, P., Krombholz, K., Weippl, E.\
36182379100;37761500500;56021667300;8925433900;\
Towards a forensic-aware database solution: Using a secured database replication protocol and transaction management for digital investigations\
(2014) Digital Investigation, 11 (4), pp. 336-348. Cited 17 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84920052250&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2014.09.003&partnerID=40&md5=c4082b416fe6ce362a6cfb434e76cd09\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2014.09.003\
AFFILIATIONS: SBA Research GGmbH, Favoritenstra\'dfe 16, Vienna, 1040, Austria\
ABSTRACT: Databases contain an enormous amount of structured data. While the use of forensic analysis on the file system level for creating (partial) timelines, recovering deleted data and revealing concealed activities is very popular and multiple forensic toolsets exist, the systematic analysis of database management systems has only recently begun. Databases contain a large amount of temporary data files and metadata which are used by internal mechanisms. These data structures are maintained in order to ensure transaction authenticity, to perform rollbacks, or to set back the database to a predefined earlier state in case of e.g. an inconsistent state or a hardware failure. However, these data structures are intended to be used by the internal system methods only and are in general not human-readable. In this work we present a novel approach for a forensic-aware database management system using transaction- and replication sources. We use these internal data structures as a vital baseline to reconstruct evidence during a forensic investigation. The overall benefit of our method is that no additional logs (such as administrator logs) are needed. Furthermore, our approach is invariant to retroactive malicious modifications by an attacker. This assures the authenticity of the evidence and strengthens the chain of custody. To evaluate our approach, we present a formal description, a prototype implementation in MySQL alongside and a comprehensive security evaluation with respect to the most relevant attack scenarios. \'a9 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Data tempering;  Databases;  Digital forensics;  InnoDB;  MySQL;  Replication;  Transaction management\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 800\
Ouyang, J., Wu, J., Coatrieux, G., Shao, Z., Shu, H.\
55446539500;34874119700;6505931513;55849891700;7203086899;\
Robust copy-scale-move forgery detection method\
(2014) Dongnan Daxue Xuebao (Ziran Kexue Ban)/Journal of Southeast University (Natural Science Edition), 44 (6), pp. 1116-1120. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84919794918&doi=10.3969%2fj.issn.1001-0505.2014.06.004&partnerID=40&md5=894d2f3906bf3691e2364aa8a31dddf1\
\
DOI: 10.3969/j.issn.1001-0505.2014.06.004\
AFFILIATIONS: Laboratory of Image Science and Technology, Southeast University, Nanjing, 210096, China; \
Telecom Bretagne, Brest, 29238, France\
ABSTRACT: In order to detect the image copy-scale-move (CSM) forgery, a CSM forgery detection method based on a pyramid model is proposed. First, a test image is rescaled into down sampling sub-images with different scale factors, which are used to build the pyramid model for forgery detection according to non-uniform sampling. Then, each sub-image in the pyramid model is divided into non-overlapping sub-blocks. The Zernike moment features of all sub-block are extracted. Finally, the block features of each sub-image and those of the original image are used to build a KD-tree to search all approximate matching pairs, from which the forged trace shift vector can be found so as to determine the tampering region. The experimental results show that compared with the existing image tampering detection methods, the proposed method provides better detection results for large scaling attacks of region-duplication. The precision and recall of detection are more than 93%. \'a9, 2014, Dongnan Daxue Xuebao (Ziran Kexue Ban)/Journal of Southeast University (Natural Science Edition). All right reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Copy-move forgery;  Image forensics;  Pyramid mode;  Tampering detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 801\
Gao, T.-G., Yang, F.-S., Sheng, G.-R.\
56265066300;56274659600;55427123000;\
A novel image forensic method based on coefficient-pair histogram in DCT domain\
(2014) Guangdianzi Jiguang/Journal of Optoelectronics Laser, 25 (11), pp. 2196-2202. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84916198949&partnerID=40&md5=72885831691e8c9b3b9c006273b23da5\
\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Software, Nankai University, Tianjin, 300071, China\
ABSTRACT: Digital images can be forged easily with today's widely available image processing software. One of the most common practices in image tampering involves cropping a patch from a source and pasting it onto a target. This task, when images are used as evidence to influence or decide judgment such as in a court of law, can be crucial. A novel image forensic method based on coefficient-pair histogram in discrete cosine transform (DCT) domain is proposed. In the method, firstly, the image is transformed by DCT, then with the given threshold, coefficient-pair histogram is computed for the DCT coefficients, and normalization processing is excuted on the coefficient-pair histogram. After that, principal component analysis (PCA) is used to reduce the dimension of the above data to get the final image features. Lastly, support vector machine (SVM) is exploited to classify the authentic and spliced images through training the feature vectors of them. In CASIA v1.0, the recognition rate reach 97.92%, and it is 91.20% in CASIA v2.0. The experimental results show that compared with some existing methods, the proposed approach has low computing complexity and good recognition performance in both uncompressed and compressed images. \'a9, 2014, Board of Optronics Lasers. All right reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Coefficient-pair histogram;  Image forensics;  Pixel-pair histogram;  Support vector machine (SVM)\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 802\
Jagadeesan, R., Lubinski, C.M., Pitcher, C., Riely, J., Winebrinner, C.\
57204885887;56789946500;14042167900;6602227457;56789998300;\
Certificates for verifiable forensics\
(2014) Proceedings of the Computer Security Foundations Workshop, 2014-January, art. no. 6957101, pp. 33-47. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84939622860&doi=10.1109%2fCSF.2014.11&partnerID=40&md5=bf2c49bc63fc7f8d3726e0eaa5bd84f8\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CSF.2014.11\
AFFILIATIONS: DePaul University, United States\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics reports typically document the search process that has led to a conclusion, the primary means to verify the report is to repeat the search process. We believe that, as a result, the Trusted Computing Base for digital forensics is unnecessarily large and opaque. We advocate the use of forensic certificates as intermediate artifacts between search and verification. Because a forensic certificate has a precise semantics, it can be verified without knowledge of the search process and forensic tools used to create it. In addition, this precision opens up avenues for the analysis of forensic specifications. We present a case study using the specification of a deleted file. We propose a verification architecture that addresses the enormous size of digital forensics data sets. As a proof of concept, we consider a computer intrusion case study, drawn from the Honey net project. Our Coq formalization yields a verifiable certificate of the correctness of the underlying forensic analysis. \'a9 2014 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Coq;  Forensic certificates;  Theorem proving;  Trustworthy digital forensics;  Verifiable forensics;  Verification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 803\
Redfield, C.M.S., Date, H.\
54786049900;56785368900;\
Gringotts: Securing data for digital evidence\
(2014) Proceedings - IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, 2014-January, art. no. 6957278, pp. 10-17. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84939485796&doi=10.1109%2fSPW.2014.11&partnerID=40&md5=fb5e8cfc4caa28091c33c2edf990f9b5\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SPW.2014.11\
AFFILIATIONS: SECOM Co., Ltd., Intelligent Systems Laboratory, Mitaka, Tokyo, 181-8528, Japan\
ABSTRACT: As digital storage and cloud processing become more common in business infrastructure and security systems, maintaining the provable integrity of accumulated institutional data that may be required as legal evidence also increases in complexity. Since data owners may have an interest in a proposed lawsuit, it is essential that any digital evidence be guaranteed against both outside attacks and internal tampering. Since the timescale required for legal disputes is unrelated to computational and mathematical advances, evidential data integrity must be maintained even after the cryptography that originally protected it becomes obsolete. In this paper we propose Gringotts, a system where data is signed on the device that generates it, transmitted from multiple sources to a server using a novel signature scheme, and stored with its signature on a database running Evidence Record Syntax, a protocol for long-term archival systems that maintains the data integrity of the signature, even over the course of changing cryptographic practices. Our proof of concept for a small surveillance camera network had a processing (throughput) overhead of 7.5%, and a storage overhead of 6.2%. \'a9 2014 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Evidence;  Digital Signatures;  Evidence Record Syntax;  Long-Term Authenticity;  Stream Data\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 804\
Poh, N., Suki, N., Iorliam, A., Ho, A.T.S.\
55926167700;56426002300;56426550900;15135345400;\
Anti-forensic resistant likelihood ratio computation: A case study using fingerprint biometrics\
(2014) European Signal Processing Conference, art. no. 6952495, pp. 1377-1381. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84911948826&partnerID=40&md5=0b379c23550c7a704c3fe0173ad82ecd\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computing, University of Surrey, Guildford, Surrey, GU2 7XH, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: One of the major utilities of biometrics in the context of crime scene investigation is to identify people. However, in the most sophisticated cases, criminals may introduce the biometric samples of innocent individuals in order to evade their own identities as well as to incriminate the innocent individuals. To date, even a minute suspect of an anti-forensic threat can potentially jeopardize any forensic investigation to the point that a potentially vital piece of evidence suddenly becomes powerless in the court of law. In order to remedy this situation, we propose an anti-forensic resistant likelihood ratio computation that renders the strength of evidence to a level that is proportional to the trustworthiness of the trace, such that a highly credible evidence will bear its full strength of evidence whilst a highly suspicious trace can have its strength of evidence reduced to naught. Using simulation as well as a spoof fingerprint database, we show that the existing likelihood ratio computation is extremely vulnerable to an anti-forensic threat whereas our proposed computation is robust to it, thereby striking the balance between the utility and threat of a trace. \'a9 2014 EURASIP.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensic;  likelihood ratios;  strength of evidence;  tampered images;  trustworthiness\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 805\
Trenwith, P.M., Venter, H.S.\
55971898900;7005841055;\
A digital forensic model for providing better data provenance in the cloud\
(2014) 2014 Information Security for South Africa - Proceedings of the ISSA 2014 Conference, art. no. 6950489, . Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84913610840&doi=10.1109%2fISSA.2014.6950489&partnerID=40&md5=8f6bab3675d1a42637f7f1fc97e16e37\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISSA.2014.6950489\
AFFILIATIONS: Software Department, GEW Technologies, Pretoria, South Africa; \
Department of Computer Science, University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: The cloud has made digital forensic investigations exceedingly difficult due to the fact that data may be spread over an ever-changing set of hosts and data centres. The normal search and seizure approach that digital forensic investigators tend to follow does not scale well in the cloud because it is difficult to identify the physical devices that data resides on. In addition, the location of these devices is often unknown or unreachable. A solution to identifying the physical device can be found in data provenance. Similar to the tags included in an email header, indicating where the email originated, a tag added to data, as it is passed on by nodes in the cloud, identifies where the data came from. If such a trace can be provided for data in the cloud it may ease the investigating process by indicating where the data can be found. In this research the authors propose a model that aims to identify the physical location of data, both where it originated and where it has been as it passes through the cloud. This is done through the use of data provenance. The data provenance records will provide digital investigators with a clear record of where the data has been and where it can be found in the cloud. \'a9 2014 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: annotations;  bilinear pairing technique;  chain of custody;  Cloud Computing;  data provenance;  Digital Forensic Investigation;  Digital Forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 806\
Valjarevic, A., Venter, H.S., Ingles, M.\
57221675883;7005841055;56434191200;\
Towards a prototype for guidance and implementation of a standardized digital forensic investigation process\
(2014) 2014 Information Security for South Africa - Proceedings of the ISSA 2014 Conference, art. no. 6950488, . Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84913605360&doi=10.1109%2fISSA.2014.6950488&partnerID=40&md5=c1fa85984bd63166ec6c9c073ecea653\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISSA.2014.6950488\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: Performing a digital forensic investigation requires a standardized and formalized process to be followed. There currently is neither an international standard formalizing such process nor does a global, harmonized digital forensic investigation process exist. Further, there exists no application that would guide a digital forensic investigator to efficiently implement such a process. This paper proposes the implementation of such a prototype in order to cater for this need. A comprehensive and harmonized digital forensic investigation process model has been proposed by the authors in their previous work and this model is used as a basis of the prototype. The prototype is in the form of a software application which would have two main functionalities. The first functionality would be to act as an expert system that can be used for guidance and training of novice investigators. The second functionality would be to enable reliable logging of all actions taken within the processes proposed in a comprehensive and harmonized digital forensic investigation process model. Ultimately, the latter functionality would enable the validation of use of a proper process. The benefits of such prototype include possible improvement in efficiency and effectiveness of an investigation due to the fact that clear guidelines will be provided when following the process for the course of the investigation. Another benefit includes easier training of novice investigators. The last, and possibly most important benefit, includes that higher admissibility of digital evidence as well as results and conclusions of digital forensic investigations will be possible due to the fact that it will be easier to show that the correct standardized process was followed. \'a9 2014 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: digital forensic investigation process model;  digital forensics;  harmonization;  implementation prototype;  ISO/IEC 27043;  standardization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 807\
Lin, J.-C., Shieh, S., Hsu, C.-W.\
57305065500;35616689300;55844447600;\
Proactive distributed digital evidence preservation with tamper resistance, perfect secrecy and high survivability\
(2014) Journal of Information Science and Engineering, 30 (6), pp. 1847-1864. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84911872266&partnerID=40&md5=909ef99f3426c5ebb39cb0f9722f439b\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, National Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu, 300, Taiwan\
ABSTRACT: To reduce the chance of being compromised, digital evidence must be preserved in a secure way when it is generated. The preservation must assure confidentiality, integrity, and survivability of the digital evidence. Some generic storage systems have been proposed. However, they cannot meet the critical requirements for digital evidence preservation. This paper introduces a secure distributed digital evidence preservation system (DEPS) which can preserve digital evidence generated by mission critical servers. With the novel and lightweight (n, n, n-1) secret recovery scheme we proposed, DEPS can efficiently divide each block of a digital evidence file into n shares, compress the first n-1 shares, and then construct a share-message with a sequence number and a fingerprint for each share. Only all the n shares combined together suffice for recovering the block. An adversary can neither obtain any information about the original block from a share-message, nor can he modify digital evidence without being discovered. By using intelligent replication, DEPS can dynamically duplicate and distribute each share-message to a set of distributed repositories to achieve high survivability. The security and performance analyses showed that DEPS is adequate for preserving digital evidence. \'a9 2014, Institute of Information Science. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Confidentiality;  Digital evidence preservation;  Integrity;  Secret recovery scheme;  Survivability\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 808\
Al Awawdeh, S., Baggili, I., Marrington, A., Iqbal, F.\
56237218800;37261105300;13410675800;35788088300;\
CAT Record (computer activity timeline record): A unified agent based approach for real time computer forensic evidence collection\
(2014) Int. Workshop Syst. Approaches Digit. Forensics Eng., SADFE, art. no. 6911539, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84910068359&doi=10.1109%2fSADFE.2013.6911539&partnerID=40&md5=11fdc15e0ac442b0d4c4145d1dc4df79\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SADFE.2013.6911539\
AFFILIATIONS: Tagliatela College of Engineering, Department of Computer and Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of New Haven, West Haven, CT, United States; \
College of Technological Innovation, Zayed University, United Arab Emirates\
ABSTRACT: In this paper we present CAT Record - a real time computer forensics agent that records computer activity for subsequent forensic investigation on a Windows computer system as actions are taking place on a system. This approach is different from the traditional post-mortem approach of examining a hard disk since activities are being recorded as they are happening. The prototype agent included six modules 1) Windows Event Watcher - which records the Windows Operating System events 2) Active Window Detector - which records the active windows on the screen 3) Font-Time-Power-Resolution Detector - which records changes in font, time, power or resolution on the system 4) Explorers Monitor - which records the activity when opening an item from the Windows Explorer or Internet Explorer 5) Removable Devices Detector - which records any external devices that are plugged in or removed from a system and 6) File System Watcher - which records the activity taking place on the file system. CAT Record was stress tested in three scenarios using an automated program that was written to test the accuracy of the agent and its memory consumption on Windows XP and Windows 7. Overall, the results indicated that the amount of recorded data varied between Windows XP and Windows 7 and that CAT Record on average did not consume more than 42,876 KB of memory per second during its operation under extremely stressful tests. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud Forensics;  Computer events;  Computer forensics;  Corpora;  Corporate investigations;  LEP;  Network forensics;  Real time;  Testing;  Timeline detection;  Tools;  Verbosity\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 809\
Allix, K., Jerome, Q., Bissyande, T.F., Klein, J., State, R., Traon, Y.L.\
56121446600;56121475100;36080354200;56282553000;57193765428;55884641800;\
A forensic analysis of android malware - How is malware written and how it could be detected?\
(2014) Proceedings - International Computer Software and Applications Conference, art. no. 6899240, pp. 384-393. Cited 31 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84928643311&doi=10.1109%2fCOMPSAC.2014.61&partnerID=40&md5=de5ac7c7891ce0fcf79d200eedc8e817\
\
DOI: 10.1109/COMPSAC.2014.61\
AFFILIATIONS: Interdisciplinary Centre for Security,Reliability and Trust, University of Luxembourg, Luxembourg, Luxembourg\
ABSTRACT: We consider in this paper the analysis of a large set of malware and benign applications from the Android ecosystem. Although a large body of research work has dealt with Android malware over the last years, none has addressed it from a forensic point of view. After collecting over 500,000 applications from user markets and research repositories, we perform an analysis that yields precious insights on the writing process of Android malware. This study also explores some strange artifacts in the datasets, and the divergent capabilities of state-of-the-art antivirus to recognize/define malware. We further highlight some major weak usage and misunderstanding of Android security by the criminal community and show some patterns in their operational flow. Finally, using insights from this analysis, we build a naive malware detection scheme that could complement existing anti virus software. \'a9 2014 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android Security;  Digital Forensics;  Malware Analysis;  Malware development\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 810\
Park, S.-W., Lee, D.G., Han, J.W., Kim, J.N.\
24831006600;7406663568;24481272300;7601385883;\
Automated and coupled services of advanced smart surveillance systems toward green IT: tracking, retrieval and digital evidence\
(2014) Journal of Supercomputing, 69 (3), pp. 1215-1234. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84920258024&doi=10.1007%2fs11227-014-1164-3&partnerID=40&md5=4b032aa0e502ae0a9b27bc7531dd7aba\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11227-014-1164-3\
AFFILIATIONS: Cyber Security Research Division, Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute, Daejeon, South Korea; \
Department of Information Security, Seowon University, #377-3 Musimseo-ro, Heungdeok-gu, Cheongjusi, Choongbok, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Green Security is a new research field defining and investigating security solutions using an energy-aware perspective. Growing efforts and interests for an intelligent or smart surveillance system which is capable of automatically detecting and tracking target objects is in the spotlight in the security community. So far, these technologies are mainly aimed at single camera applications and are evolving with the demand for wide-area surveillance systems currently. However, the tracking techniques used on a single camera have limitations in providing effective crime prevention and countermeasures when an incident occurs since an object is not linked to other cameras. In addition, the use of multi-camera systems for wide-area surveillance not only produces large amounts of video data to be stored, but also have more technical requirements in the interrelation between cameras or server. It require a considerable amount of time, manpower and energy in multi-camera tracking and back-tracking of objects. Therefore, we propose the advanced smart surveillance system for wide-areas which is capable of the automated tracking and retrieval of target object and digital evidence-video collection. Furthermore, we considered the multiple-camera environment with non-overlapping views which includes more constraint conditions by various light changes. This system enables real-time object tracking, fast post-retrieval and selective digital evidence collection with economy of time, manpower, memory devices, and energy consumption. Also, this system is more energy-efficient since our schemes are organically connected to each other. \'a9 2014, Springer Science+Business Media New York.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence;  Object tracking;  Surveillance system;  Video retrieval;  Video surveillance\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 811\
Park, J., Lee, S.\
24529123400;36063408400;\
Data fragment forensics for embedded DVR systems\
(2014) Digital Investigation, 11 (3), pp. 187-200. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84908252080&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2014.06.001&partnerID=40&md5=6fcc04397d11fe9230e56258bfe92d83\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2014.06.001\
AFFILIATIONS: Center for Information Security Technologies (CIST), Korea University, Anam-Dong, Seongbuk-Gu, Seoul, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: A recent increase in the prevalence of embedded systems has led them to become a primary target of digital forensic investigations. Embedded systems with DVR (Digital Video Recorder) capabilities are able to generate multimedia (video/audio) data, and can act as vital pieces of evidence in the field of digital forensics. To counter anti-forensics, it is necessary to derive systematic forensic techniques that can be used on data fragments in unused (unallocated) areas of files or images. Specifically, the techniques should extract meaningful information from various types of data fragments, such as non-sequential fragmentation and missing fragments overwritten by other data. This paper proposes a new digital forensic system for use on video data fragments related to DVRs. We demonstrate in detail special techniques for the classification, reassembly, and extraction of video data fragments, and introduce an integrated framework for data fragment forensics based on techniques described in this paper. \'a9 2014 Elsevier Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: CCTV;  Data fragment forensics;  Data fragmentation;  Digital forensics;  DVR;  Unused area;  Vehicle black box\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 812\
Li, Y., Zhou, Y.-J., Yuan, K.-G., Guo, Y.-C., Niu, X.-X.\
56690608500;35319203700;15761614300;7406308545;7103278515;\
Exposing photo manipulation with inconsistent perspective geometry\
(2014) Journal of China Universities of Posts and Telecommunications, 21 (4), pp. 83-91 and 104. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84922620059&doi=10.1016%2fS1005-8885%2814%2960320-4&partnerID=40&md5=3b4b9021a5dd6abb3fd6040bb5ab3cd6\
\
DOI: 10.1016/S1005-8885(14)60320-4\
AFFILIATIONS: Information Security Center, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing, 100876, China\
ABSTRACT: Manipulated digital image is got interesting in recent years. Digital images can be manipulated more easily with the aid of powerful image editing software. Forensic techniques for authenticating the integrity of digital images and exposing forgeries are urgently needed. A geometric-based forensic technique which exploits the principle of vanishing points is proposed. By means of edge detection and straight lines extraction, intersection points of the projected parallel lines are computed. The normalized mean value (NMV) and normalized standard deviation (NSD) of the distances between the intersection points are used as evidence for image forensics. The proposed method employs basic rules of linear perspective projection, and makes minimal assumption. The only requirement is that the parallel lines are contained in the image. Unlike other forensic techniques which are based on low-level statistics, this method is less sensitive to image operations that do not alter image content, such as image resampling, color manipulation, and lossy compression. This method is demonstrated with images from York Urban database. It shows that the proposed method has a definite advantage at separating authentic and forged images. \'a9 2014 The Journal of China Universities of Posts and Telecommunications.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: digital images;  forgery detection;  image forensics;  vanishing points\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 813\
Wang, L.-H., Xu, Q.-L.\
10041394500;8409758300;\
Primary exploration of reliability evaluation of computer live forensics model on physical memory analysis\
(2014) Journal of Harbin Institute of Technology (New Series), 21 (4), pp. 121-128. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84907720862&partnerID=40&md5=c0952927cc791b1f308900e8653e9934\
\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science and Technology, Shandong University, Jinan, 250101, China; \
Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Computer Network, Shandong Computer Science Center (National Supercomputer Center in Jinan), Jinan, 250014, China\
ABSTRACT: The integrity and fidelity of digital evidence are very important in live forensics. Previous studies have focused the uncertainty of live forensics based on different memory snapshots. However, this kind of method is not effective in practice. In fact, memory images are usually acquired by using forensics tools instead of using snapshots. Therefore, the integrity and fidelity of live evidence should be evaluated during the acquisition process. In this paper, we study the problem in a novel viewpoint. Firstly, several definitions about memory acquisition measure error are introduced to describe the trusty. Then, we analyze the experimental error and propose some suggestions on how to reduce it. A novel method is also developed to calculate the system error in detail. The results of a case study on Windows 7 and VMware virtual machine show that the experimental error has good accuracy and precision, which demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed reducing methods. The system error is also evaluated, that is, it accounts for the whole error from 30% to 50%.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital investigation;  Live forensics;  Trusted probability;  Volatile memory acquisition\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 814\
Kee, E., O'Brien, J.F., Farid, H.\
25655119200;56978184900;7007029048;\
Exposing photo manipulation from shading and shadows\
(2014) ACM Transactions on Graphics, 33 (5), art. no. 165, . Cited 60 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84907530062&doi=10.1145%2f2629646&partnerID=40&md5=8c359e117bde6636c2e320845e827a6f\
\
DOI: 10.1145/2629646\
AFFILIATIONS: Columbia University, United States; \
University of California, Berkeley, United States; \
Dartmouth College, United States\
ABSTRACT: We describe a method for detecting physical inconsistencies in lighting from the shading and shadows in an image. This method imposes a multitude of shading- and shadow-based constraints on the projected location of a distant point light source. The consistency of a collection of such constraints is posed as a linear programming problem. A feasible solution indicates that the combination of shading and shadows is physically consistent, while a failure to find a solution provides evidence of photo tampering. \'a92014 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forgery detection;  Image forensics;  Image manipulation;  Lighting;  Photo manipulation;  Shadows\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 815\
Chabot, Y., Kechadi, T., Bertaux, A., Nicolle, C.\
56286988800;6603214509;24476096100;6701366851;\
Event reconstruction: A state of the art\
(2014) Handbook of Research on Digital Crime, Cyberspace Security, and Information Assurance, pp. 231-245. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84945380212&doi=10.4018%2f978-1-4666-6324-4.ch015&partnerID=40&md5=772e0133865874b3ea0d22a1227630e5\
\
DOI: 10.4018/978-1-4666-6324-4.ch015\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Bourgogne, France; \
University College Dublin, Ireland\
ABSTRACT: Event reconstruction is one of the most important steps in digital forensic investigations. It allows investigators to have a clear view of the events that have occurred over a time period. Event reconstruction is a complex task that requires exploration of a large amount of events due to the pervasiveness of new technologies. Any evidence produced at the end of the investigative process must also meet the requirements of the courts, such as reproducibility, verifiability, validation, etc. After defining the most important concepts of event reconstruction, the authors present a survey of the challenges of this field and solutions proposed so far. \'a9 2015 by IGI Global. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 816 **SELECTED** SID: 46\
Day, D.\
55364737700;\
Seizing, imaging, and analyzing digital evidence: Step-by-step guidelines\
(2014) Cyber Crime and Cyber Terrorism Investigator's Handbook, pp. 71-89. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84942433818&doi=10.1016%2fB978-0-12-800743-3.00007-4&partnerID=40&md5=30a6f452466eb73bc250fd3a86ea4870\
\
DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-12-800743-3.00007-4\
AFFILIATIONS: Sheffield Hallam University, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Hiding and obfuscating their identities and digital evidence are now common activities for many malicious hackers. This coupled with anti-forensic and anonymizing techniques, such as encryption and proxy relays, have made the aims of the digital investigator more difficult to achieve. It is simple to make errors which cause vital evidence to remain undetected, or worse having found it go on to contaminate it through poor practice. This chapter suggests best practices to help obtain exhibits and uncover obfuscated evidence while maintaining its integrity for submission in court. \'a9 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Court;  Cybercrime;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Disk;  Disk;  Evidence;  Guidelines;  Hacker;  Policy;  Proxy relay;  RAM;  Tor\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 817\
Jahankhani, H., Hosseinian-far, A.\
55970576100;53979921000;\
Digital forensics education, training and awareness\
(2014) Cyber Crime and Cyber Terrorism Investigator's Handbook, pp. 91-100. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84942420976&doi=10.1016%2fB978-0-12-800743-3.00008-6&partnerID=40&md5=558585cd0500f786d5704723c753cd56\
\
DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-12-800743-3.00008-6\
AFFILIATIONS: Williams College, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Computer forensics is a field that developed from the introduction of new technologies which is readily accessible, affordable and heavily depended upon by both individuals and businesses. The speed in which these technologies have evolved brings both advantages and disadvantages to all. New criminal activity accompanied the development of technologies often referred to a cybercrime or e-crime presenting challenges to law enforcers. This chapter attempts to provide an unbiased perspective from the law enforcement arena, critically assessing the importance of proper education and training to handle, manage and investigate computer evidence and lastly the importance of having a form of accreditation to validate experience, skills, and qualifications. \'a9 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: ACPO;  Anti-forensics;  Awareness;  Chain of custody;  Computer forensics;  ECrime\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 818\
Korycki, R.\
24471679600;\
Authenticity examination of compressed audio recordings using detection of multiple compression and encoders' identification\
(2014) Forensic Science International, 238, pp. 33-46. Cited 17 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84897881921&doi=10.1016%2fj.forsciint.2014.02.008&partnerID=40&md5=637e6cd6972c6a5e51f86cedd4af82a1\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2014.02.008\
AFFILIATIONS: Forensic Laboratory, Internal Security Agency, Rakowiecka 2A, Warsaw 00-993, Poland\
ABSTRACT: Since the appearance of digital audio recordings, audio authentication has been becoming increasingly difficult. The currently available technologies and free editing software allow a forger to cut or paste any single word without audible artifacts. Nowadays, the only method referring to digital audio files commonly approved by forensic experts is the ENF criterion. It consists in fluctuation analysis of the mains frequency induced in electronic circuits of recording devices. Therefore, its effectiveness is strictly dependent on the presence of mains signal in the recording, which is a rare occurrence. Recently, much attention has been paid to authenticity analysis of compressed multimedia files and several solutions were proposed for detection of double compression in both digital video and digital audio. This paper addresses the problem of tampering detection in compressed audio files and discusses new methods that can be used for authenticity analysis of digital recordings. Presented approaches consist in evaluation of statistical features extracted from the MDCT coefficients as well as other parameters that may be obtained from compressed audio files. Calculated feature vectors are used for training selected machine learning algorithms. The detection of multiple compression covers up tampering activities as well as identification of traces of montage in digital audio recordings. To enhance the methods' robustness an encoder identification algorithm was developed and applied based on analysis of inherent parameters of compression. The effectiveness of tampering detection algorithms is tested on a predefined large music database consisting of nearly one million of compressed audio files. The influence of compression algorithms' parameters on the classification performance is discussed, based on the results of the current study. \'a9 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Binary decision tree;  Detection of montage;  Digital audio authenticity;  Digital forensics;  Discriminant analysis;  MDCT coefficients;  MP3 encoder classification;  Multiple compression;  SVM\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 819\
Cao, G., Zhao, Y., Ni, R.R., Tian, H.W., Yu, L.F.\
57193213735;35304414700;55632437300;36615909900;26424128000;\
Attacking contrast enhancement forensics in digital images\
(2014) Science China Information Sciences, 57 (5), pp. 1-13. Cited 13 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84891652861&doi=10.1007%2fs11432-013-4928-0&partnerID=40&md5=338d57e1a39ccff020137b9d5a22fdcc\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11432-013-4928-0\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science, Communication University of China, Beijing, 100024, China; \
Institute of Information Science, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, 100044, China; \
People's Public Security University of China, Beijing, 100038, China\
ABSTRACT: Currently, plenty of digital image forensic techniques have been proposed and used as diagnostic tools. It is urgent and significant to assess the reliability of such techniques applied in practical scenarios. In this paper, we investigate the security of existing digital image contrast enhancement (CE) forensic algorithms. From the standpoint of attackers, we propose two types of attacks, CE trace hiding attack and CE trace forging attack, which could invalidate the forensic detector and fabricate two types of forensic errors, respectively. The CE trace hiding attack is implemented by integrating local random dithering into the design of pixel value mapping. The CE trace forging attack is proposed by modifying the gray level histogram of a target pixel region to counterfeit peak/gap artifacts. Such trace forging attack is typically applied to create sophisticated composite images which could deceive the prior CE-based composition detectors. Extensive experimental results demonstrate the efficacy of our proposed CE anti-forensic schemes. \'a9 2014 Science China Press and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: anti-forensics;  attack;  composite image;  contrast enhancement;  digital forensics;  histogram\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 820\
Sheng, G., Yang, B.\
55427123000;56669017700;\
An improved counter-forensic algorithm to erase the JPEG compression artifacts\
(2014) International Journal of Mobile Computing and Multimedia Communications, 6 (2), pp. 22-32. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84930456602&doi=10.4018%2fijmcmc.2014040103&partnerID=40&md5=0fc321167c2fb38d49d5fa56b53b92d4\
\
DOI: 10.4018/ijmcmc.2014040103\
AFFILIATIONS: LuDong University, Yantai, China; \
Yantai Vocational College, Yantai, China\
ABSTRACT: 5With the growing awareness of the fraud case for digital images, the researchers have developed some forensic techniques that based on the intrinsic statistical history or trace left by the jpeg compression to determine an image's manipulation. Aiming at these forensic algorithms, special anti-forensic techniques was developed by removing footprints caused by jpeg compression. In this paper, the authors present an improved counterforensic scheme that based on parameter adjustment. The simulation shows that by using the proposed strategy and combining the chaotic theory, the scheme can erase the quantization artifacts perfectly, even when the compression factor Q \uc0\u8804  50 . Copyright \'a9 2014, IGI Global.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Chaotic signal;  Counter forensic algorithm;  Digital image forgery;  JPEG compression\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 821\
Balogh, \'8a.\
54419444300;\
Forensic analysis, cryptosystem implementation, and cryptology: Methods and techniques for extracting encryption keys from volatile memory\
(2014) Multidisciplinary Perspectives in Cryptology and Information Security, pp. 381-396. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84945997295&doi=10.4018%2f978-1-4666-5808-0.ch016&partnerID=40&md5=967036cad44d8f7ad411bb3812b13e26\
\
DOI: 10.4018/978-1-4666-5808-0.ch016\
AFFILIATIONS: Slovak University of Technology, Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Information Technology, Slovakia\
ABSTRACT: The increasing portability of computing devices combined with frequent reports of privacy breaches and identity theft has thrust data encryption into the public attention. While encryption can help mitigate the threat of unintentional data exposure, it is equally capable of hiding evidence of criminal malfeasance. The increasing accessibility and usability of strong encryption solutions present new challenges for digital forensic investigators. Understanding forensic analysis as a multidisciplinary field that searches evidence of crime, the authors focus their topic on particularity of cross-disciplinary issues arising in this area: Forensic analysis uses cryptology, information technology and mathematics in extracting encryption keys from memory. The chapter highlights the virtues of volatile memory analysis by demonstrating how key material and passphrases can be extracted from memory and reconstructed to facilitate the analysis of encrypted data. The authors show current methods for identifying encryption keys in memory and discuss possible defeating techniques and cryptosystem implementation strategies that could be used to avoid the key extraction. \'a9 2014 by IGI Global. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 822\
Saleem, M., Altaf, M.Q., Chaudry, Q.\
56594351100;57215419095;16174186200;\
A comparative analysis on pixel-based blind cloning techniques\
(2014) Proceedings - 4th IEEE International Conference on Control System, Computing and Engineering, ICCSCE 2014, art. no. 7072702, pp. 130-135. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84946692243&doi=10.1109%2fICCSCE.2014.7072702&partnerID=40&md5=2ec6b109e25893ec6a5492ecb3ac14de\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICCSCE.2014.7072702\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Electrical Engineering, National University of Sciences and Technology, Pakistan; \
Dept. of Mechatronics Engineering, National University of Sciences and Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan\
ABSTRACT: Digital image forensic is an emerging discipline that signifies a never ending struggle against image forgery. In this paper an attempt is made to overview the recent developments in the field of blind forensic detection techniques. The cloning forgery is one in which instead of having an external image as the source, the textured region from the same image is copied and moved to a different location for vanisihing or adding certain feature(s) in an image. We would limit our focus in this paper to the artefacts introduced at pixel level in an image, rather than anomalies introduced at format, camera, geometric and physical based. Two types of pixel based forgery detection techniques exist in literature, the Block based methods and Key-point based methods. Both the methods have their own advantages and limitations. The aim of this paper is to develop an analytical framework which provides comparison on performance & results, to narrow down the techniques which are more efficient, robust and give better evaluation. \'a9 2014 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Block Matching;  Cloning;  Copy-Move Forgery;  Digital Forensic;  Duplicated Region;  Key-points;  Pixel-Based\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 823\
Cao, G., Zhao, Y., Ni, R., Li, X.\
57193213735;35304414700;55632437300;55936260100;\
Contrast enhancement-based forensics in digital images\
(2014) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 9 (3), art. no. 6714577, pp. 515-525. Cited 180 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84896690794&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2014.2300937&partnerID=40&md5=36d6dbf6e1c04979390e7beb0b466f62\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2014.2300937\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Information Science, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing 100044, China; \
School of Computer Science, Communication University of China, Beijing 100024, China; \
State Key Laboratory of Rail Traffic Control and Safety, Beijing 100044, China; \
Beijing Key Laboratory of Advanced Information Science and Network Technology, Beijing 100044, China; \
Center for OPTical IMagery Analysis and Learning (OPTIMAL), State Key Laboratory of Transient Optics and Photonics, Xi'An Institute of Optics and Precision Mechanics, Xi'an 710119, China\
ABSTRACT: As a retouching manipulation, contrast enhancement is typically used to adjust the global brightness and contrast of digital images. Malicious users may also perform contrast enhancement locally for creating a realistic composite image. As such it is significant to detect contrast enhancement blindly for verifying the originality and authenticity of the digital images. In this paper, we propose two novel algorithms to detect the contrast enhancement involved manipulations in digital images. First, we focus on the detection of global contrast enhancement applied to the previously JPEG-compressed images, which are widespread in real applications. The histogram peak/gap artifacts incurred by the JPEG compression and pixel value mappings are analyzed theoretically, and distinguished by identifying the zero-height gap fingerprints. Second, we propose to identify the composite image created by enforcing contrast adjustment on either one or both source regions. The positions of detected blockwise peak/gap bins are clustered for recognizing the contrast enhancement mappings applied to different source regions. The consistency between regional artifacts is checked for discovering the image forgeries and locating the composition boundary. Extensive experiments have verified the effectiveness and efficacy of the proposed techniques. \'a9 2005-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: composite image;  Computer vision;  contrast enhancement;  digital forensics;  image forgery\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 824\
Qiu, W., Zhu, R., Guo, J., Tang, X., Liu, B., Huang, Z.\
8284570700;56589381100;56589265100;56589285400;35194178900;55494527200;\
A new approach to multimedia files carving\
(2014) Proceedings - IEEE 14th International Conference on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering, BIBE 2014, art. no. 7033566, pp. 105-110. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84946690907&doi=10.1109%2fBIBE.2014.31&partnerID=40&md5=45eba412f80456b9e51c11e72a2ee779\
\
DOI: 10.1109/BIBE.2014.31\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information Security Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China; \
Development Center, China Construction Bank, Shanghai, 200120, China\
ABSTRACT: Traditional file recovery methods rely on file system information, which are ineffective when file system information isn't available. File carving is a file recovery method that recovers files according to their structure and content without file system information, which is widely used in digital forensics. As the important carriers of digital information, multimedia files are important digital evidence. In this paper, a new multimedia file carving approach is proposed to improve the recovery accuracy of high entropy file fragments. The fragmented files can be recovered by a hierarchical carving process, including file header identification via entropy, file fragment type classification, and file reassembly via parallel unique path approach. A new file type classification method is constructed based on support vector machine, by using the features of BFD (byte frequency distribution) and ROC (rate of change). Four different datasets, such as DFRWS 2006/2007 challenge datasets, dataset simulating actual disk, dataset with randomly disordered fragments, and dataset with biomedical images, are employed in our experiments. The results show that JPEG recovery accuracy is improved greatly compared with that of Photo Rec tool. Our method performs best in the situation where the order of fragments is completely confusing. \'a9 2014 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Biomedical image;  File carving;  File fragment;  File type classification;  SVM\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 825\
Zadora, G., Martyna, A., Ramos, D., Aitken, C.\
6603075450;55542589100;22635815900;7004998506;\
Statistical Analysis in Forensic Science: Evidential Values of Multivariate Physicochemical Data\
(2014) Statistical Analysis in Forensic Science: Evidential Values of Multivariate Physicochemical Data, 9780470972106, pp. 1-322. Cited 82 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84922459858&doi=10.1002%2f9781118763155&partnerID=40&md5=0d3c64e4bd45b20cc827a5f913b08f6b\
\
DOI: 10.1002/9781118763155\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Forensic Research, Krak\'f2w, Poland; \
Faculty of Chemistry, Jagiellonian University, Krak\'f2w, Poland; \
Escuela Polit\'e9cnica Superior, Universidad Autonoma de Madrid, Spain; \
School of Mathematics, University of Edinburgh, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: An increase in the danger from new forms of crime and the need by those who administer justice for higher standards of scientific work require the development of new methods for measuring the evidential value of physicochemical data obtained during the analysis of various kinds of trace evidence. The physicochemical analysis of various types of evidence by the application of various analytical methods (Chapter 1) returns numerous types of information including multivariate quantitative data (Chapter 3, Appendix B), for example, concentrations of elements or the refractive index of a glass fragment. The role of the forensic expert is to evaluate such physicochemical data (evidence, E) in the context of two competing propositions H1 and H2 (Chapter 2, Appendix A). The propositions H1 and H2 may be put forward by the police, prosecutors, defenders or the courts and they concern. comparison problems (Chapter 4), for example where H1 states that the glass samples being compared originate from the same object, and H2 that the glass samples being compared originate from different objects; classification problems (Chapter 5), for example where H1 states that the glass sample which has been analysed originates from a car or building window, and H2 states that the glass sample analysed originates from a container glass. \'a9 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 826\
Na, G.-H., Shim, K.-S., Moon, K.-W., Kong, S.G., Kim, E.-S., Lee, J.\
55991037300;36684228400;57196707219;7203044888;34975058300;35205933600;\
Frame-based recovery of corrupted video files using video codec specifications\
(2014) IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, 23 (2), art. no. 6632891, pp. 517-526. Cited 26 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84891759617&doi=10.1109%2fTIP.2013.2285625&partnerID=40&md5=a9ffb06e84c2de9d19a579daafa482e9\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIP.2013.2285625\
AFFILIATIONS: Forensic Medicine Division, National Forensic Service, Seoul 158-707, South Korea; \
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA 19122, United States; \
Department of Electronic Engineering, Kwangwoon University, Seoul 139-701, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: In digital forensics, recovery of a damaged or altered video file plays a crucial role in searching for evidences to resolve a criminal case. This paper presents a frame-based recovery technique of a corrupted video file using the specifications of a codec used to encode the video data. A video frame is the minimum meaningful unit of video data. Many existing approaches attempt to recover a video file using file structure rather than frame structure. In case a target video file is severely fragmented or even has a portion of video overwritten by other video content, however, video file recovery of existing approaches may fail. The proposed approach addresses how to extract video frames from a portion of video to be restored as well as how to connect extracted video frames together according to the codec specifications. Experiment results show that the proposed technique successfully restores fragmented video files regardless of the amount of fragmentations. For a corrupted video file containing overwritten segments, the proposed technique can recover most of the video content in non-overwritten segments of the video file. \'a9 1992-2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: corrupted video data;  frame-based recovery;  Video file restoration;  video file specifications\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 827\
Suteva, N., Mileva, A., Loleski, M.\
56716271100;55538690000;56716577100;\
Computer forensic analisys of some web attacks\
(2014) 2014 World Congress on Internet Security, WorldCIS 2014, art. no. 7028164, pp. 42-47. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84949927230&doi=10.1109%2fWorldCIS.2014.7028164&partnerID=40&md5=5a58fbdd49930479efa88f791799f515\
\
DOI: 10.1109/WorldCIS.2014.7028164\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Computer Science, University Goce Del\uc0\u269 ev, \'8atip, North Macedonia; \
Forensic Department, Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Macedonia, Skopje, North Macedonia\
ABSTRACT: Symantec Internet Security Threat Report 2014 is showing a horrified fact, that when an attacker looked for a site to compromise, one in eight sites made it relatively easy to gain access. Many attackers are arrested due to the evidences obtained by computer forensics. The victim machine usually gives some data, which are then used for identifying possible suspects, which is followed by forensic analysis of their devices, like computers, laptops, tablets, and even smart phones. In this paper, we use an attack scenario on the known vulnerable web application WackoPicko, of three types of attacks: SQL Injection, stored XSS, and remote file inclusion, usually performed by using a web browser. We use post-mortem computer forensic analysis of attacker and victim machine to find some artifacts in them, which can help to identify and possible to reconstruct the attack, and most important to obtain valid evidence which holds in court. We assume that the attacker was careless and did not perform any anti-forensic techniques on its machine. \'a9 2014 Infonomics Society.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer Forensics;  File Inclusion;  SQL Injection;  XSS\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 828\
Quach, T.-T.\
35235094300;\
Extracting hidden messages in steganographic images\
(2014) Proceedings of the Digital Forensic Research Conference, DFRWS 2014 USA, pp. S40-S45. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068717676&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2014.05.003&partnerID=40&md5=24468d3e269d69c925acf80466a3bd3f\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2014.05.003\
AFFILIATIONS: Sandia National Laboratories, Albuquerque, NM, United States\
ABSTRACT: The eventual goal of steganalytic forensic is to extract the hidden messages embedded in steganographic images. A promising technique that addresses this problem partially is steganographic payload location, an approach to reveal the message bits, but not their logical order. It works by finding modified pixels, or residuals, as an artifact of the embedding process. This technique is successful against simple least-significant bit steganography and group-parity steganography. The actual messages, however, remain hidden as no logical order can be inferred from the located payload. This paper establishes an important result addressing this shortcoming: we show that the expected mean residuals contain enough information to logically order the located payload provided that the size of the payload in each stego image is not fixed. The located payload can be ordered as prescribed by the mean residuals to obtain the hidden messages without knowledge of the embedding key, exposing an inherent vulnerability in these embedding algorithms. Experimental results are provided to support our analysis. \'a9 2014 Digital Forensics Research Workshop. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Embedding key;  Logical order;  Message extraction;  Payload location;  Steganalysis;  Steganography\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 829\
Chabot, Y., Bertaux, A., Nicolle, C., Kechadi, M.-T.\
56286988800;24476096100;6701366851;6603214509;\
A complete formalized knowledge representation model for advanced digital forensics timeline analysis\
(2014) Proceedings of the Digital Forensic Research Conference, DFRWS 2014 USA, pp. S95-S105. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85068711811&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2014.05.009&partnerID=40&md5=d643099535f243dee71da00d05973bd2\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2014.05.009\
AFFILIATIONS: CheckSem Team, Laboratoire Le2i, UMR CNRS 6306, Facult\'e9 des sciences Mirande, Universit\'e9 de Bourgogne, BP47870, Dijon, 21078, France; \
School of Computer Science and Informatics, University College Dublin, Belfield, Dublin 4, Ireland\
ABSTRACT: Having a clear view of events that occurred over time is a difficult objective to achieve in digital investigations (DI). Event reconstruction, which allows investigators to understand the timeline of a crime, is one of the most important step of a DI process. This complex task requires exploration of a large amount of events due to the pervasiveness of new technologies nowadays. Any evidence produced at the end of the investigative process must also meet the requirements of the courts, such as reproducibility, verifiability, validation, etc. For this purpose, we propose a new methodology, supported by theoretical concepts, that can assist investigators through the whole process including the construction and the interpretation of the events describing the case. The proposed approach is based on a model which integrates knowledge of experts from the fields of digital forensics and software development to allow a semantically rich representation of events related to the incident. The main purpose of this model is to allow the analysis of these events in an automatic and efficient way. This paper describes the approach and then focuses on the main conceptual and formal aspects: a formal incident modelization and operators for timeline reconstruction and analysis. \'a9 2014 Digital Forensics Research Workshop. Published by Elsevier Limited. All rights.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Event reconstruction;  Knowledge management;  Ontology;  Timeline analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 830\
Roussev, V.\
55903046300;\
Digital forensics\
(2014) Computing Handbook, Third Edition: Information Systems and Information Technology, pp. 56-1-56-29. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85054754296&doi=10.1201%2fb16768&partnerID=40&md5=665e2a28cfb63f8add2b6ee59e0a49b1\
\
DOI: 10.1201/b16768\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, University of New Orleans, New Orleans, LA, United States\
ABSTRACT: Forensic science (or forensics) is dedicated to the systematic application of scientific methods to gather and analyze evidence in order to establish facts and conclusions that can be presented in a legal proceeding. Digital forensics (a.k.a. computer or cyber forensics) is a subfield within forensics, which deals specifically with digital artifacts, such as files, and computer systems and networks used to create, transform, transmit, and store them. This is a very broad definition, and there are several closely related fields and sub-fields that share methods and tools with forensics. Indeed, the forensic methods used were originally developed for a different purpose and continue to be shared. Thus, it is primarily the purpose, and not their functionality, that classify particular tools and techniques as forensic. \'a9 2014 by Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 831\
Heriyanto, A.P.\
56446936000;\
Forensic examination and analysis of the Prefetch files on the banking Trojan malware incidents\
(2014) Proceedings of 12th Australian Digital Forensics Conference, ADF 2014, pp. 35-43. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85001075205&doi=10.4225%2f75%2f57b40250fb894&partnerID=40&md5=ae0a0e2200b6d8f234512a3a5c6be7a2\
\
DOI: 10.4225/75/57b40250fb894\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer and Security Science, Edith Cowan University, Perth, WA, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Whenever a program runs within the operating system, there will be data or artefacts created on the system. This condition applies to the malicious software (malware). Although they intend to obscure their presence on the system with anti-forensic techniques, still they have to run on the victim's system to acquire their objective. Modern malware creates a significant challenge to the digital forensic community since they are being designed to leave limited traces and misdirect the examiner. Therefore, every examiner should consider performing all the forensics approaches such as memory forensic, live-response and Windows file analysis in the related malware incidents to acquire all the potential evidence on a victim's system. There is a challenge when an examiner only has an option to perform post-mortem forensic approach. It leads to a question: what is a forensic examination and analysis that available to obtain evidence in such incidents? The paper shows how the Prefetching process works on a system, common characteristics and the differences in the Prefetching process related to the various versions of Windows. Thus, the paper shows how the Prefetch files contain the evidentiary value which could answer what, how, where and when the banking Trojan malware infects the system. Finally, the paper shows that forensic examination and analysis of the Prefetch files can find the data remnants of banking Trojan malware incidents. \'a9 2014, Edith Cowan University. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Banking Trojan malware;  Forensic examination and analysis;  Post-mortem forensics;  Prefetch files\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 832\
Joy, D., Li, F., Clarke, N.L., Furnell, S.M.\
57192212801;55494495900;8961310300;7003551084;\
A user-oriented network forensic analyser: The design of a high-level protocol analyser\
(2014) Proceedings of 12th Australian Digital Forensics Conference, ADF 2014, pp. 84-93. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85000995835&doi=10.4225%2f75%2f57b3e511fb87f&partnerID=40&md5=ce077017eaa3a6c979a1082dfd28119f\
\
DOI: 10.4225/75/57b3e511fb87f\
AFFILIATIONS: Centre for Security, Communications and Network Research (CSCAN), Plymouth University, Plymouth, United Kingdom; \
Security Research Institute, Edith Cowan UniversityWA, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Network forensics is becoming an increasingly important tool in the investigation of cyber and computer-assisted crimes. Unfortunately, whilst much effort has been undertaken in developing computer forensic file system analysers (e.g. Encase and FTK), such focus has not been given to Network Forensic Analysis Tools (NFATs). The single biggest barrier to effective NFATs is the handling of large volumes of low-level traffic and being able to exact and interpret forensic artefacts and their context - for example, being able extract and render application-level objects (such as emails, web pages and documents) from the low-level TCP/IP traffic but also understand how these applications/artefacts are being used. Whilst some studies and tools are beginning to achieve object extraction, results to date are limited to basic objects. No research has focused upon analysing network traffic to understand the nature of its use - not simply looking at the fact a person requested a webpage, but how long they spend on the application and what interactions did they have with whilst using the service (e.g. posting an image, or engaging in an instant message chat). This additional layer of information can provide an investigator with a far more rich and complete understanding of a suspect's activities. To this end, this paper presents an investigation into the ability to derive high-level application usage characteristics from low-level network traffic meta-data. The paper presents a three application scenarios - web surfing, communications and social networking and demonstrates it is possible to derive the user interactions (e.g. page loading, chatting and file sharing) within these systems. The paper continues to present a framework that builds upon this capability to provide a robust, flexible and user-friendly NFAT that provides access to a greater range of forensic information in a far easier format. \'a9 2014, Edith Cowan University. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Analysis;  Correlation;  Digital forensics;  Network forensic analysis tool;  Network forensics;  Visualisation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 833\
Lee, H.-K.J., Yun, Y.-M., Yoon, K.-H., Cho, D.-S.\
56081791700;56080819900;56081024000;7401737863;\
Design of automatic paper identification system with QR code for digital forensics\
(2014) Lecture Notes in Electrical Engineering, 274 LNEE, pp. 25-30. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84958552085&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-40675-1_5&partnerID=40&md5=d0f8c7becf83a0110128d95190830307\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-40675-1_5\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, South Korea; \
Document Examination Section, Supreme Prosecutors' Office, Seoul, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: As the printing technology is developing, the use of digital documents which is printed with a variety of printing papers is increasing. And the increase in criminal forgery of digital documents has been the cause of many social problems. As a result, the development of digital forensic techniques to collect and analyze the evidence of the crime of forgery of digital documents is increasingly important. In this paper, we propose an automatic paper identification technique with QR code that is formed based on the extracted features from each paper's microscope image. \'a9 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Document;  Digital Forensics;  Identification System;  Paper Id;  Printing Paper;  QR code\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 834\
Bera, A., Bhattacharjee, D., Nasipuri, M.\
56332905500;36849496500;6603420429;\
Hand biometrics in digital forensics\
(2014) Studies in Computational Intelligence, 555, pp. 145-163. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84958551248&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-05885-6_8&partnerID=40&md5=ce7d6308d8e82de9ee90862369936b3e\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-05885-6_8\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Haldia Institute of Technology, Haldia-721657, India; \
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Jadavpur University, Kolkata-700032, India\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensic is now an unavoidable part for securing the digital world from identity theft. Higher order of crimes, dealing with a massive database is really very challenging problem for any intelligent system. Biometric is a better solution to win over the problems encountered by digital forensics. Many biometric characteristics are playing their significant roles in forensics over the decades. The potential benefits and scope of hand based modes in forensics have been investigated with an illustration of hand geometry verification method. It can be applied when effective biometric evidences are properly unavailable; gloves are damaged, and dirt or any kind of liquid can minimize the accessibility and reliability of the fingerprint or palmprint. Due to the crisis of pure uniqueness of hand features for a very large database, it may be relevant for verification only. Some unimodal and multimodal hand based biometrics (e.g. hand geometry, palmprint and hand vein) with several feature extraction, database and verification methods have been discussed with 2D, 3D and infrared images. \'a9 Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2014.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forensics;  Fusion;  Hand biometrics;  Multibiometrics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 835\
Akosu, N., Selamat, A.\
55792799500;24468984100;\
Incorporating language identification in digital forensics investigation framework\
(2014) Studies in Computational Intelligence, 555, pp. 63-78. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84958550343&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-05885-6_4&partnerID=40&md5=5e82e4bfb23d1ca50b4c26c5ca6c2864\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-05885-6_4\
AFFILIATIONS: Software Engineering Department, Faculty of Computing, Universiti Tecknologi Malaysia, 81310 Skudai, Johor, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: In current business practices, majority of organizations rely heavily on digital devices such as computers, generic media, cell phones, network systems, and the internet to operate and improve their business. Thus, a large amount of information is produced, accumulated, and distributed via electronic means. Consequently, government and company interests in cyberspace and private networks become vulnerable to cyberspace threats. The investigation of crimes involving the use of digital devices is classified under digital forensics which involves adoption of practical frameworks and methods to recover data for analysis which can serve as evidence in court. However, cybercrime has advanced to the stage where criminals try to cover their tracks through the use of anti-forensic strategies such as data overwriting and data hiding. Research into anti-forensics has given rise to the concept of 'live' forensics which comprises proactive forensics approaches capable of digitally investigating an incident as it occurs. However, information exchange using ICT facilities has reduced the world into a global village without eliminating the linguistic diversity on the planet. Moreover, existing digital forensics frameworks have assumed the language of stored information. If such assumption turns out to be wrong, semantic interpretation of extracted text would also be wrong leading to wrong conclusions. We propose incorporation of language identification (LID) in digital forensics investigation (DFI) models in order to help law enforcement to be a step ahead of criminals. In this chapter, we outline issues of language identification in DFI frameworks and propose a new framework with language identification component. The LID component is to carry out digital surveillance by scrutinizing emails, SMS, and text file transfers, in and out of the system of interest. The collected text is then subjected to language identification. Determining the language of the text would help to decide if the communication is regular and safe or suspicious and should be subjected to further forensic analysis. Finally we discuss results from a simple language identification scheme that can be easily and quickly integrated to a DFI model yielding very high accuracy without compromising speed performance. \'a9 Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2014.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Digital forensic framework;  Language identification;  Spelling checker;  Under-resourced languages\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 836\
Tall\'f3n-Ballesteros, A.J., Riquelme, J.C.\
36192484400;57219716128;\
Data mining methods applied to a digital forensics task for supervised machine learning\
(2014) Studies in Computational Intelligence, 555, pp. 413-428. Cited 18 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84958530843&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-05885-6_17&partnerID=40&md5=f1be8feb8e92e4a530e8b3541f830a58\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-05885-6_17\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Languages and Computer Systems, University of Seville, Reina Mercedes Avenue, Seville, 41012, Spain\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics research includes several stages. Once we have collected the data the last goal is to obtain a model in order to predict the output with unseen data. We focus on supervised machine learning techniques. This chapter performs an experimental study on a forensics data task for multi-class classification including several types of methods such as decision trees, bayes classifiers, based on rules, artificial neural networks and based on nearest neighbors. The classifiers have been evaluated with two performance measures: accuracy and Cohen's kappa. The followed experimental design has been a 4-fold cross validation with thirty repetitions for non-deterministic algorithms in order to obtain reliable results, averaging the results from 120 runs. A statistical analysis has been conducted in order to compare each pair of algorithms by means of t-tests using both the accuracy and Cohen's kappa metrics. \'a9 Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2014.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Classification model;  Data mining;  Digital forensics;  Glass evidence;  Supervised machine learning\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 837\
Pratama, S.F., Pratiwi, L., Abraham, A., Muda, A.K.\
43061455200;43061440900;7202760099;23390362900;\
Computational intelligence in digital forensics\
(2014) Studies in Computational Intelligence, 555, pp. 1-16. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84958526766&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-05885-6_1&partnerID=40&md5=4816d4491d522229ccc580dfa13a3aae\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-05885-6_1\
AFFILIATIONS: Computational Intelligence and Technologies (CIT) Research Group, Faculty of Information and Communication Technology, Universiti Teknikal Malaysia Melaka, Hang Tuah Jaya, 76100 Durian Tunggal, Melaka, Malaysia; \
Machine Intelligence Research Labs (MIR Labs), Scientific Network for Innovation and Research Excellence, Auburn, WA, United States\
ABSTRACT: Forensic Science has been around for quite some time. Although various forensic methods have been proved for their reliability and credibility in the criminal justice system, their main problem lies in the necessity of highly qualified forensic investigators. In the course of analysis of evidences, forensic investigators must be thorough and rigorous, hence time consuming. Digital Forensic techniques have been introduced to aid the forensic investigators to acquire as reliable and credible results as manual labor to be presented in the criminal court system. In order to perform the forensic investigation using Digital Forensic techniques accurately and efficiently, computational intelligence oftentimes employed in the implementation of Digital Forensic techniques, which has been proven to reduce the time consumption, while maintaining the reliability and credibility of the result, moreover in some cases, it is producing the results with higher accuracy. The introduction of computational intelligence in Digital Forensic has attracted a vast amount of researchers to work in, and leads to emergence of numerous new forensic investigation domains. \'a9 Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2014.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computational forensics;  Computational intelligence;  Digital forensics;  Forensic science\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 838\
Ekpenyong, M., Obot, O.\
28567702600;24338932500;\
Speech quality enhancement in digital forensic voice analysis\
(2014) Studies in Computational Intelligence, 555, pp. 429-451. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84958523518&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-05885-6_18&partnerID=40&md5=64f88049badece7aafb1aeb135161af2\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-05885-6_18\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, University of Uyo, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United Kingdom; \
Department of Computer Science, University of Uyo, Uyo, Nigeria\
ABSTRACT: The influence of noise and reverberation in Digital Forensic voice evidence can conceal the identification, verification and processing of crime data. Computationally, the efficiency in processing speech signals largely depends on the integrity and authenticity of audio/voice recordings. Our interest is on improving integrity, vis-\'e0-vis the intelligibility of speech signals. We achieved this in four folds. First, a speech quality enhancement technique that cleans and rebuilds defective speech data for quality Forensic analysis is proposed by exploring an optimal estimator for the magnitude spectrum, where the Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) coefficients of clean speech are modelled by a Laplacian distribution and the noise DFT coefficients are modelled using a Gaussian distribution. Second, an automatic speech pre-processing algorithm for phoneme segmentation of raw speech data, capable of iteratively refining Hidden Markov Model (HMM) speech labels for improved intelligibility is introduced. Third, a simulation of the distortion from a quantised R-bit and computation of the Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR) for the signal to quantisation noise is carried out for the purpose of managing speech signal distortions. Fourth, an investigation of the effect of confused phonemic and tone bearing unit features on the intelligibility of speech is presented to assist Forensic experts decode voice disguise or language "barriers" that may impede proper Forensic voice analysis. Results obtained in this investigation reveal a future of prospects in the field of Forensic intelligence and is most likely to reduce unnecessary setbacks during Forensic analysis. \'a9 Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2014.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forensic science;  Intelligent system;  Speech quality evaluation;  Speech synthesis;  Voice adaptation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 839\
Ferreira, A., Rocha, A.\
36699403000;16643616700;\
A multiscale and multi-perturbation blind forensic technique for median detecting\
(2014) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 8827, pp. 302-310. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84949119682&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-12568-8_37&partnerID=40&md5=e4bbfe6944423cd164337e0cf381b53c\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-12568-8_37\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Computing, University of Campinas, Av. Albert Einstein, 1251, Cidade Universitaria, Campinas, SP  CEP 13083-852, Brazil\
ABSTRACT: This paper aims at detecting traces of median filtering in digital images, a problem of paramount importance in forensics given that filtering can be used to conceal traces of image tampering such as resampling and light direction in photomontages. To accomplish this objective, we present a novel approach based on multiple and multiscale progressive perturbations on images able to capture different median filtering traces through using image quality metrics. Such measures are then used to build a discriminative feature space suitable for proper classification regarding whether or not a given image contains signs of filtering. Experiments using a real-world scenario with compressed and uncompressed images show the effectiveness of the proposed method. \'a9 Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2014.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Image forensics;  Image tampering;  Median filtering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 840\
James, J.I., Lopez-Fernandez, A., Gladyhsev, P.\
55430342500;56890893300;56891720800;\
Measuring accuracy of automated parsing and categorization tools and processes in digital investigations\
(2014) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, LNICST, 132, pp. 147-169. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84943252454&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-14289-0_11&partnerID=40&md5=1b146b67658daf533812553a6273a6a5\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-14289-0_11\
AFFILIATIONS: Digital Forensic Investigation Research Laboratory, SoonChunHyang University, Shinchang-myeon, Asan-si, South Korea; \
Computer Science and Informatics, University College Dublin, Belfield, Dublin 4, Ireland; \
Digital Forensic Investigation Research Laboratory, University College Dublin, Belfield, Dublin 4, Ireland\
ABSTRACT: This work presents a method for the measurement of the accuracy of evidential artifact extraction and categorization tasks in digital forensic investigations. Instead of focusing on the measurement of accuracy and errors in the functions of digital forensic tools, this work proposes the application of information retrieval measurement techniques that allow the incorporation of errors introduced by tools and analysis processes. This method uses a \'91gold standard\'92 that is the collection of evidential objects determined by a digital investigator from suspect data with an unknown ground truth. This work proposes that the accuracy of tools and investigation processes can be evaluated compared to the derived gold standard using common precision and recall values. Two example case studies are presented showing the measurement of the accuracy of automated analysis tools as compared to an in-depth analysis by an expert. It is shown that such measurement can allow investigators to determine changes in accuracy of their processes over time, and determine if such a change is caused by their tools or knowledge. \'a9 Institute for Computer Sciences, Social Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering 2014.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensic investigation;  Digital investigation measurement;  Digital investigation verification;  Information retrieval;  Investigation accuracy;  Precision and recall\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 841\
5th International Conference on Digital Forensics and Cyber Crime, ICDF2C 2013\
(2014) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, LNICST, 132, pp. 1-251. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84943246369&partnerID=40&md5=6b39121c551635990d658c7b576d3fb8\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 17 papers. The special focus in this conference is on Digital Forensics - Technical, Information Warfare, Cyber Terrorism, Critical Infrastructure Protection, Digital Forensics - Standards, Certification and Accreditation. The topics include: Robust copy-move forgery detection based on dual-transform; forensic decryption of FAT bitlocker volumes; forensic artifacts of the flareget download manager; amazon kindle fire HD forensics; a carver for fragmented files; taxonomy of data fragment classification techniques; identifying forensically uninteresting files using a large corpus; face detection and robust hashing; regulating social network services for lawful interception; measuring accuracy of automated parsing and categorization tools and processes in digital investigations; towards a process model for hash functions in digital forensics; an automated link analysis solution applied to digital forensic investigations; computer profiling for preliminary forensic examination; determining training needs for cloud infrastructure investigations using I-STRIDE; cloud forensic readiness: foundations and mozilla firefox browsing artifacts in 3 different anti-forensics modes.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 842\
Lin, I.L., Yen, Y.S., Leu, F.Y.\
15925460000;8890078700;7003794821;\
Research on comparison and analysis of the DEFSOP, NIST Cell SOP and ISO27037 SOP\
(2014) Proceedings - 2014 8th International Conference on Innovative Mobile and Internet Services in Ubiquitous Computing, IMIS 2014, art. no. 6975516, pp. 511-516. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84938690855&doi=10.1109%2fIMIS.2014.74&partnerID=40&md5=8053634ab9575509b91b26bb092fbfe2\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IMIS.2014.74\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Management, Yuanpei University, HsinChu, Taiwan; \
Department of Appiled Informatics, Fo Guang University, I-Lan, Taiwan; \
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, Tunghai University, Taichung, Taiwan\
ABSTRACT: In recent years, Information and Communication Technology (ICT) has developed rapidly, and smart phones have become very important communication tools in the modern world. Because smart phones contain copious personal information and have high mobility and powerful hardware, crimes involving smart phones have increased rapidly. There are many types of modus operandi that are increasing, and smart phones have become one of the highly technical tools used to commit a crime. In view of this, our research will discuss Smart-Phone Digital Evidence Forensics Standard Operating Procedure (Smart-Phone DEFSOP) which was proposed by Prof. I-Long, Lin. Our research will compare with the SOP which was proposed by National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) cell SOP, and ISO27037. Finally, we will use trusted third party forensics tools to collect, analyze and examine digital evidences. In order to assist proof capacity of digital evidences in the court, we have to authenticate the "integrity", "consistency" and "precision" of the digital evidences. \'a9 2014 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyber Crime;  Digital Evidence;  Digital Evidence Forensics Standard Operating Procedure (DEFSOP);  Digital Forensics;  Smart Phone\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 843\
Syambas, N.R., Farisi, N.E.\
35175038800;56725821100;\
Two-step injection method for collecting digital evidence in digital forensics\
(2014) Journal of ICT Research and Applications, 8c (2), pp. 141-156. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84937959912&doi=10.5614%2fitbj.ict.res.appl.2014.8.2.5&partnerID=40&md5=1f9bdb91b70ee1ee6368dc37540584a8\
\
DOI: 10.5614/itbj.ict.res.appl.2014.8.2.5\
AFFILIATIONS: Telematics Laboratory, School of Electrical and Informatics Engineering, Institut Teknologi Bandung, Jl. Ganesha No. 10, Bandung, 40132, Indonesia\
ABSTRACT: In digital forensic investigations, the investigators take digital evidence from computers, laptops or other electronic goods. There are many complications when a suspect or related person does not want to cooperate or has removed digital evidence. A lot of research has been done with the goal of retrieving data from flash memory or other digital storage media from which the content has been deleted. Unfortunately, such methods cannot guarantee that all data will be recovered. Most data can only be recovered partially and sometimes not perfectly, so that some or all files cannot be opened. This paper proposes the development of a new method for the retrieval of digital evidence called the Two-Step Injection method (TSI). It focuses on the prevention of the loss of digital evidence through the deletion of data by suspects or other parties. The advantage of this method is that the system works in secret and can be combined with other digital evidence applications that already exist, so that the accuracy and completeness of the resulting digital evidence can be improved. An experiment to test the effectiveness of the method was set up. The developed TSI system worked properly and had a 100% success rate. \'a9 2014 Published by ITB Journal Publisher.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Hidden application;  Keyloggers;  TSI\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 844\
Tobin, P., Kechadi, T.\
56684647300;6603214509;\
Virtual machine forensics by means of introspection and kernel code injection\
(2014) 9th International Conference on Cyber Warfare and Security 2014, ICCWS 2014, pp. 292-298. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84931065073&partnerID=40&md5=dac24285163b0769ad63c38fe1d12370\
\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science and Informatics, University College Dublin, Ireland\
ABSTRACT: Virtual Machine Introspection offers the ability to access a virtual machine (VM) remotely and extract information from it. Virtual Machine Introspection allows all processes, local data, and network traffic to be tracked and made available to the investigation process. These properties offer the possibility to monitor a suspect VM. Moreover, the access to a VM data is far from being trivial; there are various complex tasks to be dealt with. For instance the returned data is in a raw format, and it is necessary to remap into a user-friendly representation (e.g., canonical representation). In this paper we propose a method of bridging this semantic gap, and provide a graphical reconstruction of events. This approach is essentially, the recreation of a VM at a remote location and the subsequent recreations of all processes, data, and network traffic in a VM as they occur in the original machine. This should be achieved in real-time, which will give an opportunity to quickly make decisions based on the evidence as we collect them in real-time. Our approach involves recreating a VM and injecting into it all code and data within the original VM, presenting an identical copy for examination. The proposed approach also has another advantage by allowing all data to be saved for further analysis and verification. \'a9 Copyright The Authors, 2014. All Rights Reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Kernel injection;  Virtual machine introspection;  Virtualisation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 845\
Dzomira, S.\
56623075600;\
Digital forensic technologies as e-fraud risk mitigation tools in the banking industry: Evidence from Zimbabwe\
(2014) Risk Governance and Control: Financial Markets and Institutions, 4 (2CONTINUED1), pp. 116-124. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84928889663&doi=10.22495%2frgcv4i2c1art4&partnerID=40&md5=ece74380feaef35f69c079ffcd8cb3db\
\
DOI: 10.22495/rgcv4i2c1art4\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Finance, Risk Management and Banking, CEMS, UNISA, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: The paper investigates digital analytical tools and technologies used in electronic fraud prevention and detection, used in the banking industry. The paper is based on a descriptive study which studied digital forensics and cyber fraud phenomenon using content analysis. To obtain the data questionnaires and interviews were administered to the selected informants from 22 banks. Convenience and judgemental sampling techniques were used. It was found out that fraud detection and prevention tools and technologies would be most effective way of combating e-fraud if they can be utilized. It is concluded that banking institutions should reshape their anti-fraud strategies to be effective by considering fraud detection efforts using advanced analytics and related tools, software and application to get more efficient oversight. \'a9 2014, Virtus Interpress. All Rights Reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Analytical tools;  Cross-channel fraud;  Cyber fraud;  Data analysis;  Digital forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 846\
Jaiswal, S., Dhavale, S.\
56592062600;36699510600;\
Temporal forensics of MPEG video using discrete wavelet transform and support vector machine\
(2014) Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, 243, pp. 645-651. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84927623514&doi=10.1007%2f978-81-322-1665-0_64&partnerID=40&md5=eeb54d460fbf2ac86f64aa35ff182b64\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-81-322-1665-0_64\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Engineering, Defence Institute of Advanced Technology, Pune, India\
ABSTRACT: Detection of video forgery is challenging, as finding traces of tampering is a complex task. Digital video forensic is used as an important tool to detect video forgery. Compression history of a video is analyzed to carry out temporal forensics of motion-compensated video such as MPEG-2, MPEG-4, H.263, H.264. Wang and Farid demonstrated that double MPEG compression can detect temporal fingerprints of video forgery, by visually inspecting I-frame prediction error sequence (PES) in the discrete Fourier transform (DFT) domain. This method is prone to human error and can be stressful while analyzing large number of videos. In order to overcome the drawback of this method, here we propose a novel technique to automatically detect video forgery using discrete wavelet transform (DWT) and support vector machine (SVM). A new statistical parameter \'93c\'94 related to the difference vector of first-level DWT coarse and detail sub-bands is used for the automatic detection of temporal attacks. Here, we use SVM, which is an effective and efficient classification tool to analyze/recognize data patterns. Experiment is conducted using various SVM kernel functions such as linear, polynomial, quadratic, radial basis function (RBF), and multilayer perceptron (MLP) to classify forged videos. The experimental results demonstrated that the proposed method can efficiently detect video forgery. \'a9 Springer India 2014.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Discrete wavelet transform;  Support vector machine\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 847\
Khanuja, H.K., Adane, D.S.\
56126948000;24491522600;\
Forensic analysis for monitoring database transactions\
(2014) Communications in Computer and Information Science, 467, pp. 201-210. Cited 13 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84927617784&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-662-44966-0_19&partnerID=40&md5=5ca87e9cc0f50351854846608da733cd\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-662-44966-0_19\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Engineering, MMCOEPune, India; \
Department of Information Technology, RKNEC, Nagpur, India\
ABSTRACT: Database forensics aids in the qualification and investigation of databases and facilitates a forensic investigator to prove a suspected crime which can be used to prevent illegitimate banking transactions. The banks deals in public money but unfortunately are becoming vulnerable by receiving illegal money in the form of legitimate business. The absence of any preventive measures in the banks to monitor such scam would be perilous some day. If they violate relevant laws and regulatory guidelines they can unknowingly keep raising Money Laundering practices in their system. In this article we propose a forensic methodology for private banks to have ongoing monitoring system as per Reserve Bank of India (RBI) guidelines for financial transactions which will check their database audit logs on continuous basis for marking suspected transactions if any. These transactions are then precisely analyzed and verified with Dempster Shafer Theory of Evidence to generate suspected reports automatically as required by Financial Intelligence Unit. \'a9 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Database forensics;  Database transactions;  Dempster shafer theory;  Money laundering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 848\
Povar, D., Geethakumar, G.\
46661973200;56593240400;\
A heuristic model for performing digital forensics in cloud computing environment\
(2014) Communications in Computer and Information Science, 467, pp. 341-352. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84927612461&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-662-44966-0_33&partnerID=40&md5=68eb37d7cc9bcfe4402b3c662b20b292\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-662-44966-0_33\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Information Systems, BITS Pilani, Hyderabad Campus, Jawaharnagar, Rangareddy Dist, Andhra Pradesh  50078, India\
ABSTRACT: Cloud computing is a relatively new model in the computing world after several computing paradigms like personal, ubiquitous, grid, mobile, and utility computing. Cloud computing is synonymous with virtualization which is about creating virtual versions of the hardware platform, the Operating System or the storage devices. Virtualization poses challenges to implementation of security as well as cybercrime investigation in the cloud. Although several researchers have contributed in identifying digital forensic challenges and methods of performing digital forensic analysis in the cloud computing environment, we feel that the requirement of finding the most appropriate methods to evaluate the uncertainty in the digital evidence is a must. This paper emphasizes on the methods of finding and analyzing digital evidence in cloud computing environment with respect to the cloud user as well as the provider. We propose a heuristic model for performing digital forensics in the cloud environment. \'a9 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud computing;  Cloud forensics;  Cybercrime;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Virtualization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 849\
Moore, J., Baggili, I., Marrington, A., Rodrigues, A.\
57199210494;37261105300;13410675800;7202269888;\
Preliminary forensic analysis of the Xbox one\
(2014) Proceedings of the Digital Forensic Research Conference, DFRWS 2014 USA, pp. S57-S65. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84924173092&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2014.05.014&partnerID=40&md5=c159f20acbbd981b65eca5f99ae0b956\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2014.05.014\
AFFILIATIONS: Cyber Forensics Research and Education Group (UNHcFREG), University of New Haven, Tagliatela College of Engineering, ECECS Department, 300 Boston Post Rd, West Haven, CT  06416, United States; \
Advanced Cyber Forensics Research Laboratory, Zayed University, PO Box 19282, Dubai, United Arab Emirates\
ABSTRACT: Video game consoles can no longer be viewed as just gaming consoles but rather as full multimedia machines, capable of desktop computer-like performance. The past has shown that game consoles have been used in criminal activities such as extortion, identity theft, and child pornography, but with their ever-increasing capabilities, the likelihood of the expansion of criminal activities conducted on or over the consoles increases. This research aimed to take the initial step of understanding the Xbox One, the most powerful Microsoft console to date. We report the outcome of conducting a forensic examination of the Xbox One, and we provide our Xbox One data set of hard drive images and unique files so that the forensic community may expand upon our work. The Xbox One was found to have increased security measures over its predecessor (Xbox 360). The encryption of the data and the new file types introduced made it difficult to discern potential digital evidence. While these added security features caused great difficulty in forensically acquiring digital forensic artifacts, some important and interesting digital evidence was gathered using open-source tools. We were able to find digital evidence such as times that the user initially set up the console, and times when the system was restored or shutdown. We were also able to determine what games and applications had been downloaded along with when the games were played. Finally, through our network forensic experiments, we were able to determine that various applications had different levels of security and that game traffic was encrypted. \'a9 2014 Digital Forensics Research Workshop. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Games;  Hard drive;  Network forensics;  NTFS;  Video game console forensics;  Xbox one\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 850\
Rahim, N., Wahab, A.W.A., Idris, M.Y.I., Kiah, L.M.\
57214733241;26025772700;7005361464;24833455600;\
Digital forensics: An overview of the current trends\
(2014) Conference Proceedings - Cryptology 2014: Proceedings of the 4th International Cryptology and Information Security Conference 2014, pp. 236-244. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84923209960&partnerID=40&md5=694f78e26c6509b0093e89014c208e3f\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: There are various digital forensic models occupied in digital investigative processes. Developments of suitable Digital Forensic Framework (DFF) were required for presenting the digital evidence in a better way. Digital forensic investigation process is needed to search digital devices directed for relevant evidence. This paper explores the development of digital forensics framework that is based on the foundation of Digital Forensics Workshops (DFWRs). In addition, this paper also discusses the challenges of current digital forensic framework.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensic;  Digital forensic challenges;  Digital forensic investigation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 851\
Cheng, Y., Fu, X., Luo, B., Yang, R., Ruan, H.\
56488933600;42961441400;57202866205;55267730900;56489873100;\
Investigating the hooking behavior: A page-level memory monitoring method for live forensics\
(2014) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 8783, pp. 255-272. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84921528217&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-319-13257-0_15&partnerID=40&md5=93730183d1a3973b694af4064096379c\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-13257-0_15\
AFFILIATIONS: Software Institute, Nanjing University, China\
ABSTRACT: In intrusion forensics, it is difficult to find the evidences about who placed the hooks and how these hooks were placed simply by analyzing the memory dump. That\'92s because such behavior is transient and the snapshot of memory usually doesn\'92t contain enough information about it. Lack of this information will cause an uncompleted chain of evidence. Although dynamic analysis can trace this behavior by instruction-level analysis, this technique is slow and inconvenient in real forensic cases. And many investigated systems do not run in the virtualization environment that dynamic analysis needed.\
So we present a new method to intercept processes and create accurate modification bitmaps to reveal the process\'92s memory behavior based on hardware events. A complete evidence chain is created for forensics by acquiring the process\'92s running snapshots and its file image path during the monitoring. Considering live forensic cases, we apply this method to a novel lightweight hypervisor which can build up a virtualization environment on-the-fly. Without modifying any code in target OS and suspending it, this method can monitor systems running on bare hardware. Its memory usage and performance impact on the investigated system is also proved to be acceptable in our experiment. \'a9 Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2014.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Evidence;  Live forensics;  Memory behavior;  Process;  Virtualization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 852\
Proceedings of the 11th Australian Digital Forensics Conference, ADF 2013\
(2014) Proceedings of the 11th Australian Digital Forensics Conference, ADF 2013, 149 p. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84919360805&partnerID=40&md5=09a46534635fb298703edfd76cf88f04\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 16 papers. The topics discussed include: verification of primitive sub Ghz Rf replay attack techniques based on visual signal analysis; acquisition of evidence from network intrusion detection systems; steganographic checks in digital forensic investigation: a social networking case; identifying bugs in digital forensic tools; including network routers in forensic investigation; procedures and tools for acquisition and analysis of volatile memory on android smartphones; a forensic analysis and comparison of solid state drive data retention with trim enabled file systems; robust watermarking method by systematic block diffusion using discrete cosine transform; and sellers continue to give away confidential information on second hand memory cards sold in Australia.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 853\
Cusack, B., Homewood, A.\
8957818600;56446967800;\
Identifying bugs in digital forensic tools\
(2014) Proceedings of the 11th Australian Digital Forensics Conference, ADF 2013, pp. 51-58. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84917690875&partnerID=40&md5=d57ebf5bde08b5c59cc820b85a5c6332\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Auckland University of Technology, Auckland, New Zealand; \
Security Research Institute, Edith Cowan University, Perth, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Bugs can be found in all code and the consequences are usually managed through up-grade releases, patches, and restarting operating systems and applications. However, in mission critical systems complete fall over systems are built to assure service continuity. In our research we asked the question, what are the professional risks of bugs in digital forensic tools? Our investigation reviewed three high use professional proprietary digital forensic tools, one in which we identified six bugs and evaluated these bug in terms of potential impacts on an investigator's work. The findings show that yes major brand name digital forensic tools have software bugs and there is room for improvement. These bugs had potential to frustrate an investigator, to cost time, to lose evidence and to require compensatory strategies. Such software bugs also have the potential for malicious exploitation and anti-forensic use.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Bugs;  Digital;  Forensic;  Risk;  Tools;  Work\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 854\
Verma, R., Govindaraj, J., Gupta, G.\
55904019600;55960549600;57213551100;\
Preserving dates and timestamps for incident handling in android smartphones\
(2014) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 433, pp. 209-225. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84911150040&partnerID=40&md5=5053f4b013d3f040e1661889b0a27b4f\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology, New Delhi, India; \
Infosys Labs, Bangalore, India\
ABSTRACT: The \'93bring your own device\'94 (BYOD) policy is rapidly being adopted by enterprises around the world. Enterprises save time and money when they allow employees to bring their own electronic devices to the workplace; employees find it convenient and efficient to use a single device for professional and personal use. However, securing the personal and professional data in the devices is a huge challenge for employers and employees. Dates and timestamps constitute important evidence when devices have been compromised or used for illegal activities. This paper focuses on the malicious tampering of dates and timestamps in Android smartphones. The proposed reactive approach gathers kernel-generated timestamps of events and stores them in a secure location outside an Android smartphone. In the case of a security incident, the stored timestamps can assist in an offline digital forensic investigation. To our knowledge, this is the first attempt to preserve authentic Android event timestamps in order to detect potential malicious actions, including anti-forensic measures. \'a9 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing 2014.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android smartphones;  Dates and timestamps;  Preservation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 855\
Aziz, B., Massonet, P., Ponsard, C.\
13104900100;55886514200;14523393200;\
A formal model for forensic storage media preparation tools\
(2014) SECRYPT 2014 - Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on Security and Cryptography, Part of ICETE 2014 - 11th International Joint Conference on e-Business and Telecommunications, pp. 165-170. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84908892413&doi=10.5220%2f0004996001650170&partnerID=40&md5=1813f6b968da351a5f96b5a432a7c342\
\
DOI: 10.5220/0004996001650170\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computing, University of Portsmouth, Portsmouth, United Kingdom; \
Centre d'Excellence en Technologies de l'Information et de la Communication (CETIC), Charleroi, Belgium\
ABSTRACT: This paper defines a model of a special type of digital forensics tools, known as digital media preparation forensic tools, using the formal refinement language Event-B. The complexity and criticality of many types of computer and Cyber crime nowadays combined with improper or incorrect use of digital forensic tools calls for the evidence produced by such tools to be able to meet the minimum admissibility standards the legal system requires, in general implying that it must be generated from reliable and robust tools. Despite the fact that some research and effort has been spent on the validation of digital media preparation forensic tools by means of testing (e.g. within NIST), the verification of such tools and the formal specification of their expected behaviour remains largely under-researched. The goal of this work is to provide a formal specification against which the implementations of such tools can be analysed and tested in the future.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Digital media preparation tools;  Event-B language;  Refinement methodology\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 856 **SELECTED** SID: 47\
Jain, A., Chhabra, G.S.\
56404957900;56405430800;\
Anti-forensics techniques: An analytical review\
(2014) 2014 7th International Conference on Contemporary Computing, IC3 2014, art. no. 6897209, pp. 412-418. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84908636951&doi=10.1109%2fIC3.2014.6897209&partnerID=40&md5=cdfb1f3b0d2234a2c2908ddbcf23e052\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IC3.2014.6897209\
AFFILIATIONS: SMCA, Thapar University Patiala, India\
ABSTRACT: The rapid growth and development in technology has made computer as a weapon which can cause great loss if used with wrong intentions. Computer forensics aims at collecting, and analyzing evidences from the seized devices in such ways so that they are admissible in court of law. Anti-forensics, on the other hand, is collection of tricks and techniques that are used and applied with clear aim of forestalling the forensic investigation. Crime and crime prevention go hand in hand. Once a crime surfaces, then a defense is developed, then a new crime counters the new defense. Hence along with continuous developments in forensics, a thorough study and knowledge of developments in anti-forensics is equally important. This paper focuses on understanding different techniques that can be used for anti-forensic purposes with help of open source tools. \'a9 2014 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: anti-forensics;  artifact wiping;  attack on computer forensic tools;  computer forensics;  data hiding;  trail obfuscation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 857\
Satta, R., Stirparo, P.\
50861763400;26668100900;\
On the usage of Sensor Pattern Noise for picture-to-identity linking through social network accounts\
(2014) VISAPP 2014 - Proceedings of the 9th International Conference on Computer Vision Theory and Applications, 3, pp. 5-11. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84906919756&doi=10.5220%2f0004682200050011&partnerID=40&md5=d94d362fe5ef3d5b5f21fea9dd42f7b7\
\
DOI: 10.5220/0004682200050011\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute for the Protection and Security of the Citizen Joint Research Centre (JRC), European Commission, Ispra (VA), Italy; \
Royal Institute of Technology (KTH), Stockholm, Sweden\
ABSTRACT: Digital imaging devices have gained an important role in everyone's life, due to a continuously decreasing price, and of the growing interest on photo sharing through social networks. As a result of the above facts, everyone continuously leaves visual "traces" of his/her presence and life on the Internet, that can constitute precious data for forensic investigators. Digital Image Forensics is the task of analysing such digital images for collecting evidences. In this field, the recent introduction of techniques able to extract a unique "fingerprint" of the source camera of a picture, e.g. based on the Sensor Pattern Noise (SPN), has set the way for a series of useful tools for the forensic investigator. In this paper, we propose a novel usage of SPN, to find social network accounts belonging to a certain person of interest, who has shot a given photo. This task, that we name Picture-to-Identity linking, can be useful in a variety of forensic cases, e.g., finding stolen camera devices, cyber-bullying, or on-line child abuse. We experimentally test a method for Picture-to-Identity linking on a benchmark data set of publicly accessible social network accounts collected from the Internet. We report promising result, which show that such technique has a practical value for forensic practitioners.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Account;  Digital image forensics;  Identity;  Linking;  Multimedia forensics;  Sensor Pattern Noise;  Social network\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 858\
McClelland, D., Marturana, F.\
56342598800;54914512300;\
A Digital Forensics Triage methodology based on feature manipulation techniques\
(2014) 2014 IEEE International Conference on Communications Workshops, ICC 2014, art. no. 6881277, pp. 676-681. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84906739568&doi=10.1109%2fICCW.2014.6881277&partnerID=40&md5=da3a81ff2768ba682bd254a459a1a2d3\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICCW.2014.6881277\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information and Communications Technology, Bahrain Polytechnic, Isa Town, Bahrain; \
Department of Civil Engineering and Information Engineering, University of Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy\
ABSTRACT: The evolution of modern digital devices is outpacing the scalability and effectiveness of Digital Forensics techniques. Digital Forensics Triage is one solution to this problem as it can extract evidence quickly at the crime scene and provide vital intelligence in time critical investigations. Similarly, such methodologies can be used in a laboratory to prioritize deeper analysis of digital devices and alleviate examination backlog. Developments in Digital Forensics Triage methodologies have moved towards automating the device classification process and those which incorporate Machine Learning principles have proven to be successful. Such an approach depends on crime-related features which provide a relevant basis upon which device classification can take place. In addition, to be an accepted and viable methodology it should be also as accurate as possible. Previous work has concentrated on the issues of feature extraction and classification, where less attention has been paid to improving classification accuracy through feature manipulation. In this regard, among the several techniques available for the purpose, we concentrate on feature weighting, a process which places more importance on specific features. A twofold approach is followed: on one hand, automated feature weights are quantified using Kullback-Leibler measure and applied to the training set whereas, on the other hand, manual weights are determined with the contribution of surveyed digital forensic experts. Experimental results of manual and automatic feature weighting are described which conclude that both the techniques are effective in improving device classification accuracy in crime investigations. \'a9 2014 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Automated feature weighting;  Digital Forensics Triage;  feature manipulation;  feature selection;  improving classification accuracy;  Machine Learning;  manual feature weighting\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 859\
Bian, S., Luo, W., Huang, J.\
55581279300;18042301700;56057258200;\
Detecting video frame-rate up-conversion based on periodic properties of inter-frame similarity\
(2014) Multimedia Tools and Applications, 72 (1), pp. 437-451. Cited 15 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84905995783&doi=10.1007%2fs11042-013-1364-5&partnerID=40&md5=927f65b60e3e0de6d55455756ff369b8\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11042-013-1364-5\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information Science and Technology, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510006, China; \
School of Software, Sun Yat-sen University, Ghuangzhou, 510006, China\
ABSTRACT: Video frame-rate up-conversion is one of the common operations for tampering digital videos in the temporal domain, such as creating fake high-quality videos and splicing two video clips with different frame rates. However, few existing works have been proposed for detecting this form of tampering operation. Based on the analysis of extensive experiments, we found that frame-rate up-conversion algorithms employed in most current video editing softwares will inevitably introduce some periodic artifacts into inter-frame similarity in the resulting video frame sequence. By analyzing such artifacts, we propose a simple yet very effective method to expose video after frame-rate up-conversion, and further estimate its original frame rate. The experimental results evaluated on 100 original videos at different frame rates have shown the effectiveness of the proposed method. The average detection accuracy can achieve as high as 99%on noise-free videos in uncompressed and H.264/AVC formats. Besides, the proposed method is robust to noise as the detection accuracy could reach over 85 % and 95 % on noised videos with Gaussian white noise when SNR is 33 db and 36 db respectively. \'a9 2012 Springer Science+Business Media New York.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Fake quality videos;  Frame-rate up-conversion;  Video forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 860 **SELECTED** SID: 48\
Nikolai, J., Wang, Y., Nepali, R.K.\
56136713800;55542882400;56022340000;\
A framework for examining the human side of anti-forensic measures\
(2014) 20th Americas Conference on Information Systems, AMCIS 2014, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84905978253&partnerID=40&md5=ba50e6d0113dcd3889b7e8f0bb529be8\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Dakota State University, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: The need for forensic computing and the legitimacy of anti-forensic computing have been examined in literature. However, the majority of existing research in forensic and anti-forensic computer is primarily based around the technology and processes for or against gathering as well as presenting evidence. In this work, we examine the topic through a different lens by exploring the dilemma of why users employ antiforensic technology in the first place. Our work provides an early conceptual framework based on the theory of reasoned action and the theory of planned behavior to assist researchers and practitioners to understand why computing users employ anti-forensic tools and techniques. If organizations can determine the reasons forensic counter measures are applied, then improved policies and procedures can be put in place to address the computing users' concerns while retaining the ability to enact forensic measures when a violation of policy or illegal activity occurs.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forensic computing;  Forensic countermeasures;  Theory of planned behavior;  Theory of reasoned action\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 861\
Ding, F., Zhu, G., Shi, Y.Q.\
56289824200;55839320700;7404964736;\
A novel method for detecting image sharpening based on local binary pattern\
(2014) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 8389 LNCS, pp. 180-191. Cited 14 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84904764591&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-662-43886-2_13&partnerID=40&md5=0d8d5bbaf7fa26991de77c5ac0cec274\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-662-43886-2_13\
AFFILIATIONS: Electrical and Computer Engineering, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark NJ 07102, United States; \
Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen 518055 Guangdong, China\
ABSTRACT: In image forensics, determining the image editing history plays an important role as most digital images need to be edited for various purposes. Image sharpening which aims to enhance the image edge contrast for a clear view is considered to be one of the most fundamental editing techniques. However, only a few works have been reported on the detection of image sharpening. From a perspective of texture analysis, the over-shoot artifact caused by image sharpening can be regarded as a special kind of texture modification. We also find that this kind of texture modification can be characterized by local binary patterns (LBP), which is one of the most wildly used methods for texture classification. Therefore, in this paper we propose a novel method based on LBP to detect the application of sharpening in digital image. At first, we employ Canny operator for edge detection. The rotation-invariant LBP was applied to the detected edge pixels of images for feature extraction. Then features extracted from sharpened and unsharpened images are fed into a support vector machine (SVM) classifier for classification. Experimental results on digital images with different coefficients for sharpening have demonstrated the capability of this method. Comparing with the state-of-arts, the proposed method is validated to be the one with better performance in sharpening detection. \'a9 2014 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  LBP;  Rotation invariant;  Sharpen;  Sharpening detection;  Texture\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 862\
Yang, J., Zhu, G., Wang, J., Shi, Y.Q.\
35184690700;55839320700;56290462800;7404964736;\
Detecting non-aligned double JPEG compression based on refined intensity difference and calibration\
(2014) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 8389 LNCS, pp. 169-179. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84904758808&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-662-43886-2_12&partnerID=40&md5=0f13cb4ba51ffca1d166e662d217b459\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-662-43886-2_12\
AFFILIATIONS: Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen 518055 Guangdong, China; \
Electrical and Computer Engineering, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark NJ 07102, United States\
ABSTRACT: The detection of non-aligned double JPEG (NA-DJPEG) compression is one of the most important topics in the forensics of JPEG image. In this paper, we propose a novel feature set to detect NA-DJPEG compression based on refined intensity difference (RID), a new measure for blocking artifacts. Refined intensity difference is essentially intensity difference with compensation, which takes the negative effect of image texture into consideration when measuring blocking artifacts. The extraction pipeline of the proposed feature set mainly includes two steps. Firstly, two groups of RID histograms (totally sixteen histograms) with respect to horizontal and vertical directions are computed to describe the possible blocking artifacts in each row and column, and the bin values of these histograms are arranged to form an RID feature vector. Then, in order to make the RID feature vector less dependent on image texture and more discriminative, we calibrate it by a reference feature vector to generate a calibrated RID (C-RID) feature vector for final binary classification. Experiments have been conducted to validate the effectiveness of the C-RID feature set, and the results have shown that it outperforms the compared feature sets in most cases. \'a9 2014 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Blocking artifacts;  Digital forensics;  Double compression detection;  Non-aligned grid\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 863\
Quach, T.-T.\
35235094300;\
Extracting hidden messages in steganographic images\
(2014) Digital Investigation, 11 (SUPPL. 2), pp. S40-S45. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84904616296&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2014.05.003&partnerID=40&md5=c907a0ca55fb7f925a068432f043b063\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2014.05.003\
AFFILIATIONS: Sandia National Laboratories, Albuquerque, NM, United States\
ABSTRACT: The eventual goal of steganalytic forensic is to extract the hidden messages embedded in steganographic images. A promising technique that addresses this problem partially is steganographic payload location, an approach to reveal the message bits, but not their logical order. It works by finding modified pixels, or residuals, as an artifact of the embedding process. This technique is successful against simple least-significant bit steganography and group-parity steganography. The actual messages, however, remain hidden as no logical order can be inferred from the located payload. This paper establishes an important result addressing this shortcoming: we show that the expected mean residuals contain enough information to logically order the located payload provided that the size of the payload in each stego image is not fixed. The located payload can be ordered as prescribed by the mean residuals to obtain the hidden messages without knowledge of the embedding key, exposing an inherent vulnerability in these embedding algorithms. Experimental results are provided to support our analysis. 2014 Digital Forensics ResearchWorkshop. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Embedding key;  Logical order;  Message extraction;  Payload location;  Steganalysis;  Steganography\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 864\
Chabot, Y., Bertaux, A., Nicolle, C., Kechadi, M.-T.\
56286988800;24476096100;6701366851;6603214509;\
A complete formalized knowledge representation model for advanced digital forensics timeline analysis\
(2014) Digital Investigation, 11 (SUPPL. 2), pp. S95-S105. Cited 33 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84904615617&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2014.05.009&partnerID=40&md5=d38b9e291572f775b8c77777c4ddfeba\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2014.05.009\
AFFILIATIONS: Laboratoire Le2i, Facult\'e9 des Sciences Mirande, Universit\'e9 de Bourgogne, BP47870, 21078 Dijon, France; \
School of Computer Science and Informatics, University College Dublin, Belfield-Dublin 4, Ireland\
ABSTRACT: Having a clear view of events that occurred over time is a difficult objective to achieve in digital investigations (DI). Event reconstruction, which allows investigators to understand the timeline of a crime, is one of the most important step of a DI process. This complex task requires exploration of a large amount of events due to the pervasiveness of new technologies nowadays. Any evidence produced at the end of the investigative process must also meet the requirements of the courts, such as reproducibility, verifiability, validation, etc. For this purpose, we propose a new methodology, supported by theoretical concepts, that can assist investigators through the whole process including the construction and the interpretation of the events describing the case. The proposed approach is based on a model which integrates knowledge of experts from the fields of digital forensics and software development to allow a semantically rich representation of events related to the incident. The main purpose of this model is to allow the analysis of these events in an automatic and efficient way. This paper describes the approach and then focuses on the main conceptual and formal aspects: a formal incident modelization and operators for timeline reconstruction and analysis. 2014 Digital Forensics ResearchWorkshop. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Event reconstruction;  Knowledge management;  Ontology;  Timeline analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 865\
Moore, J., Baggili, I., Marrington, A., Rodrigues, A.\
57199210494;37261105300;13410675800;7202269888;\
Preliminary forensic analysis of the Xbox one\
(2014) Digital Investigation, 11 (SUPPL. 2), pp. S57-S65. Cited 12 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84904612806&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2014.05.014&partnerID=40&md5=1d12ca50744712550e3d075c0318c1ea\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2014.05.014\
AFFILIATIONS: Cyber Forensics Research and Education Group (UNHcFREG), University of New Haven, Tagliatela College of Engineering, 300 Boston Post Rd, West Haven, CT 06416, United States; \
Advanced Cyber Forensics Research Laboratory, Zayed University, PO Box 19282, Dubai, United Arab Emirates\
ABSTRACT: Video game consoles can no longer be viewed as just gaming consoles but rather as full multimedia machines, capable of desktop computer-like performance. The past has shown that game consoles have been used in criminal activities such as extortion, identity theft, and child pornography, but with their ever-increasing capabilities, the likelihood of the expansion of criminal activities conducted on or over the consoles increases. This research aimed to take the initial step of understanding the Xbox One, the most powerful Microsoft console to date. We report the outcome of conducting a forensic examination of the Xbox One, and we provide our Xbox One data set of hard drive images and unique files so that the forensic community may expand upon our work. The Xbox One was found to have increased security measures over its predecessor (Xbox 360). The encryption of the data and the new file types introduced made it difficult to discern potential digital evidence. While these added security features caused great difficulty in forensically acquiring digital forensic artifacts, some important and interesting digital evidence was gathered using open-source tools. We were able to find digital evidence such as times that the user initially set up the console, and times when the system was restored or shutdown. We were also able to determine what games and applications had been downloaded along with when the games were played. Finally, through our network forensic experiments, we were able to determine that various applications had different levels of security and that game traffic was encrypted. 2014 Digital Forensics ResearchWorkshop. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Games;  Hard drive;  Network forensics;  NTFS;  Video game console forensics;  Xbox one\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 866\
\uc0\u262 osi\u263 , Z., \u262 osi\u263 , J., Ba\u269 a, M.\
24168069900;36462367900;13405376900;\
Biometric system vulnerability as a compromising factor for integrity of chain of custody and admissibility of digital evidence in court of justice: Analysis and improvement proposal\
(2014) Journal of Information and Organizational Sciences, 38 (1), pp. 11-33. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84903373595&partnerID=40&md5=f638518ddcddf6cdef5b97adbf4d11d4\
\
AFFILIATIONS: STATHEROS D.o.o., Ka\'9atel Stari, Split, Croatia; \
Ministry of the Interior ofUna-sana canton, ICT Section of Police Administration, Biha\uc0\u263 , Bosnia and Herzegovina; \
University of Zagreb, Croatia\
ABSTRACT: Biometric systems play an important role in digital investigation process as a important factor of authentication and verification applications, since they are strongly linked to the holder of a biometric traits and possible suspect. Thus it is important that biometric systems can be designed to withstand attacks when employed in security-critical applications, especially in unattended remote applications such as energy plants, access to borders at airports, e-commerce etc. Biometric recognition either raises important legal issues of remediation, authority, and reliability, and, of course, privacy. The standard assumptions of the technologists who design new techniques, capabilities, and systems are very different from those embedded in the legal system. Legal precedent on the use of biometric technology is growing, with some key cases going back decades and other more recent cases having raised serious questions about the admissibility of biometric evidence in court. In this paper authors is about to explain influence of reliability of biometric system on general acceptance of digital evidence in Court of Justice process. Through paper authors are also about to propose vulnerability assessment of biometric system as improvement factor of reliability of existing methodology for preserving chain of custody of digital evidence called DEMF (Digital Evidence Management Framework). Improvement proposal is presented as an introduction of phase of biometric vulnerability evaluation methodology within proposed framework called APDEMF (Admissibility procedure of DEMF). Using UML (Universal Modeling Language) modeling methodology authors are about to represent a APDEMF framework which will describe essential phases of the same process.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Biometrics;  Chain of custody;  Chain of custody of digital evidence;  Characteristics;  Digital forensic;  System digital evidence;  Traits\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 867\
Lee, C.-Y., Lee, S.\
56194846500;36063408400;\
Structure and application of IconCache.db files for digital forensics\
(2014) Digital Investigation, 11 (2), pp. 102-110. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84903272686&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2014.05.017&partnerID=40&md5=3ee2adf58a7b8949a170358e4932ea58\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2014.05.017\
AFFILIATIONS: Center for Information Security Technologies (CIST), Korea University, Anam-Dong, Seongbuk-Gu, Seoul, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Anti-forensics has developed to prevent digital forensic investigations, thus forensic investigations to prevent anti-forensic behaviors have been studied in various area. In the area of user activity analysis, "IconCache.db" files contain icon cache information related to applications, which can yield meaningful information for digital forensic investigations such as the traces of deleted files. A previous study investigated the general artifacts found in the IconCache.db file. In the present study, further features and structures of the IconCache.db file are described. We also propose methods for analyzing anti-forensic behaviors (e.g., time information related to the deletion of files). Finally, we introduce an analytical tool that was developed based on the file structure of IconCache.db. The tool parses out strings from the IconCache.db to assist an analyst. Therefore, an analyst can more easily analyze the IconCache.db file using the tool. \'a9 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Digital forensics;  Icon;  IconCache.db;  User behavior\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 868\
Aziz, B.\
13104900100;\
Modelling and refinement of forensic data acquisition specifications\
(2014) Digital Investigation, 11 (2), pp. 90-101. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84903268218&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2014.04.001&partnerID=40&md5=7ee711b42b5c548f4df7646de84efe8e\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2014.04.001\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computing, University of Portsmouth, Portsmouth PO1 3HE, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: This paper defines a model of a special type of digital forensics tools, known as data acquisition tools, using the formal refinement language Event-B. The complexity and criticality of many types of computer and Cyber crime nowadays combined with improper or incorrect use of digital forensic tools calls for more robust and reliable specifications of the functionality of digital forensics applications. As a minimum, the evidence produced by such tools must meet the minimum admissibility standards the legal system requires, in general implying that it must be generated from reliable and robust tools. Despite the fact that some research and effort has been spent on the validation of digital forensics tools by means of testing, the verification of such tools and the formal specification of their expected behaviour remains largely under-researched. The goal of this work is to provide a formal specification against which implementations of data acquisition procedures can be analysed. \'a9 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Disk data acquisition;  Event-B method;  Formal refinement;  Formal specifications\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 869\
Rekhis, S.\
8546749800;\
Security investigation in wireless networks (invited talk)\
(2014) SFCS 2014 - Proceedings of the 2nd International Workshop on Security and Forensics in Communication Systems, p. 1. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84902832045&doi=10.1145%2f2598918.2615725&partnerID=40&md5=49699ed306e93ac104bf46ae1d631477\
\
DOI: 10.1145/2598918.2615725\
AFFILIATIONS: Communication Networks and Security Research Lab., University of Carthage, Ariana, Tunisia\
ABSTRACT: Most of the theoretical techniques of digital investigation provided in the literature are neither able to cope with attacks in wireless networks, nor able to investigate anti-forensic attacks. In this talk, I will describe a formal approach for digital investigation of security attacks in wireless networks, and I will provide a model for describing attack scenarios in a wireless environment, and evidence generated at the system and network layers. In this talk, an inference system that integrates the two types of evidence, handles the incompleteness and duplication of information in them, will be provided. It allows generating and proving potential and provable forms of actions and attack scenarios. The last part of the talk will be related to the investigation of anti-forensic attacks. A formal approach, based on a novel theory of Hierarchical Visibility, will be provided for the forensic investigation of security incidents, which are conducted over complex systems and integrate anti-forensic attacks. \'a9 2014 Author.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: anti-forensic attacks;  formal digital investigation;  formal proof;  network security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 870\
Liu, C., Singhal, A., Wijesekera, D.\
55490693800;14056810000;6603774480;\
A model towards using evidence from security events for network attack analysis\
(2014) Proceedings of the 11th International Workshop on Security in Information Systems, WOSIS 2014 - In Conjunction with ICEIS 2014, pp. 83-95. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84902314745&doi=10.5220%2f0004980300830095&partnerID=40&md5=25d3a43d89dc27b1a7e15662490c071f\
\
DOI: 10.5220/0004980300830095\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, George Mason University, Fairfax VA 22030, United States; \
National Institute of Standards and Technology, 100 Bureau Drive, Gaithersburg MD 20899, United States\
ABSTRACT: Constructing an efficient and accurate model from security events to determine an attack scenario for an enterprise network is challenging. In this paper, we discuss how to use evidence obtained from security events to construct an attack scenario and build an evidence graph. To achieve the accuracy and completeness of the evidence graph, we use Prolog inductive and abductive reasoning to correlate evidence by reasoning the causality, and use an anti-forensics database and a corresponding attack graph to find the missing evidence. In addition, because the constructed scenario and supplied evidence might need to stand up in the court of law, the federal rules of evidence are also taken into account to predetermine the admissibility of the evidence.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Abductive Reasoning;  Admissibility;  Anti-forensics;  Attack Graph;  Evidence Graph;  Inductive Reasoning;  Network Forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 871\
Liu, B., Pun, C.-M.\
57196891193;7003931852;\
HSV based image forgery detection for copy-move attack\
(2014) Applied Mechanics and Materials, 556-562, pp. 2825-2828. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84902089602&doi=10.4028%2fwww.scientific.net%2fAMM.556-562.2825&partnerID=40&md5=449171e672403c0f696e7ff18256ba8a\
\
DOI: 10.4028/www.scientific.net/AMM.556-562.2825\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Macau, Macau SAR, Macau\
ABSTRACT: As the great development of digital photography and relevant post-processing technology, digital image forgery becomes easily in terms of operating thus may be improperly utilized in news photography in which any forgery is strictly prohibited or the other scenario, for instance, as an evidence in the court. Therefore, digital image forgery detection technique is needed. In this paper, attention has been focused on copy-move forgery that one region is copied and then pasted onto other zones to create duplication or cover something in an image. A novel method based on HSV color space feature is proposed and experimental result will be given and it shows the effectiveness and accurateness of proposed methodology. \'a9 (2014) Trans Tech Publications, Switzerland.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Copy-move forgery;  Digital image forensics;  HSV\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 872\
Li, S.-Y.\
57224918426;\
Based on digital image forensics edge characteristic morphological filtering technology\
(2014) Advanced Materials Research, 912-914, pp. 1181-1184. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84901257439&doi=10.4028%2fwww.scientific.net%2fAMR.912-914.1181&partnerID=40&md5=326d42a70ab8b6dd880eebe6b2f02c78\
\
DOI: 10.4028/www.scientific.net/AMR.912-914.1181\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Literature and History at Party school of the C.P.C. Shandong Province Committee, China\
ABSTRACT: For the number of buildings in the most commonly forged composite image blur operation, this paper presents an image forensics morphological filtering algorithm based on edge characteristics; The method uses homomorphic filtering and morphological filtering method to enhance the operation of the fuzzy image edge analyzed defocus blur and artificial blurred boundary characteristics, the use of artificial edge blur and defocus blur characteristics achieved for passive blind digital image forgery evidence; experiments show that this method can effectively detect forged digital images fuzzy operation marks and the partial image has been able to accurately locate the fuzzy operation. \'a9 (2014) Trans Tech Publications, Switzerland.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Image processing;  Mathematical nkhjtology\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 873\
Lin, X., Wei, X., Li, C.-T.\
55204959700;55607034400;26648782200;\
Two improved forensic methods of detecting contrast enhancement in digital images\
(2014) Proceedings of SPIE - The International Society for Optical Engineering, 9028, art. no. 90280X, . Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84900399616&doi=10.1117%2f12.2038644&partnerID=40&md5=7d880bc0c32decae93a8586a2e86de80\
\
DOI: 10.1117/12.2038644\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Contrast enhancements, such as histogram equalization or gamma correction, are widely used by malicious attackers to conceal the cut-and-paste trails in doctored images. Therefore, detecting the traces left by contrast enhancements can be an effective way of exposing cut-and-paste image forgery. In this work, two improved forensic methods of detecting contrast enhancement in digital images are put forward. More specifically, the first method uses a quadratic weighting function rather than a simple cut-off frequency to measure the histogram distortion introduced by contrast enhancements, meanwhile the averaged high-frequency energy measure of his- togram is replaced by the ratio taken up by the high-frequency components in the histogram spectrum. While the second improvement is achieved by applying a linear-Threshold strategy to get around the sensitivity of threshold selection. Compared with their original counterparts, these two methods both achieve better performance in terms of ROC curves and real-world cut-and-paste image forgeries. The effectiveness and improvement of the two proposed algorithms are experimentally validated on natural color images captured by commercial camera. \'a9 2014 SPIE-IS&T .\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: contrast enhancement detection;  Digital forensics;  inter-channel similarity\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 874\
Halboob, W., Alghathbar, K.S., Mahmod, R., Udzir, N.I., Abdullah, Mohd.T., Deghantanha, A.\
26428754700;56022895300;6506085008;8662597200;56350232300;36023169100;\
An efficient computer forensics selective imaging model\
(2014) Lecture Notes in Electrical Engineering, 276 LNEE, pp. 277-284. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84899870270&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-40861-8_41&partnerID=40&md5=a7555491b48d98e5a055785893d41a3e\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-40861-8_41\
AFFILIATIONS: Center of Excellence in Information Assurance, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; \
Departments of Information Systems, Collage of Computer and Information Sciences, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; \
Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, Universiti Putra Malaysia, 43400 Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: Selective imaging is a new concept in computer forensics. It is used for collecting only the data that is relevant to the crime and helps in improves the scalability of the investigation process. However, the current selective imaging approaches directly image the identified data without considering their offsets on the targeted user storage. This paper investigates the impact of the relevant data offsets on the efficiency of the selective imaging process. A practical selective imaging model is presented which includes a digital evidence ordering algorithm (DEOA) for ordering the selected relevant data items. The proposed selective imaging model has been implemented and evaluated in different types of storage devices. The evaluation result shows that even if our proposed algorithm has a small efficiency negative impact before the imaging process starts; it has a large positive effect on the efficiency of the selective imaging process itself. \'a9 2014 Springer-Verlag.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  digital evidence;  efficiency;  ordering algorithm;  selective imaging\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 875\
Mire, A.V., Dhok, S.B., Porey, P.D., Mistry, N.J.\
56125588600;56035466700;6602979749;56217097800;\
Digital forensic of JPEG images\
(2014) Proceedings - 2014 5th International Conference on Signal and Image Processing, ICSIP 2014, art. no. 6754865, pp. 131-136. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84899098746&doi=10.1109%2fICSIP.2014.26&partnerID=40&md5=cc489315ff40170c8156f22b575d95fa\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICSIP.2014.26\
AFFILIATIONS: Deptt of COED, SVNIT, Surat, India; \
Deptt of ETRX, VNIT, Nagpur, India; \
Deptt of CED, SVNIT, Surat, India\
ABSTRACT: Since JPEG is the de facto image format adopted in most of the digital cameras and image editing software, tampered image will be often a recompressed JPEG image. As JPEG works on 8 by 8 block cosine transform most of the tampering correlation inherited by tampered image may get destroyed, making forgery detection difficult thus it is common practice followed by forger to hide traces of resampling & splicing. JPEG forgery detection techniques try to identify inconsistencies in the artifacts introduced in image due to 8 by 8 block DCT transform. The original image on which forgery is created may be compressed or uncompressed image, similarly area pasted may belong to compressed or uncompressed image. Since both will be having different compression history JPEG forgery detection techniques try to identify the difference in compression history which may be in the form of shifting of DCT block alignment, difference in primary quantization table or ghost detection. \'a9 2014 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: ADJPEG;  Ghost detection;  NADJPE;  primary quantization table\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 876\
Khanuja, H., Suratkar, S.S.\
56126948000;56126261500;\
Role of metadata in forensic analysis of database attacks\
(2014) Souvenir of the 2014 IEEE International Advance Computing Conference, IACC 2014, art. no. 6779367, pp. 457-462. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84899082734&doi=10.1109%2fIAdCC.2014.6779367&partnerID=40&md5=90bbfdc467f847367021755700d20829\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IAdCC.2014.6779367\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Computer Engg., MMCOE, Pune, India; \
MMCOE, Pune, India\
ABSTRACT: With the spectacular increase in online activities like e-transactions, security and privacy issues are at the peak with respect to their significance. Large numbers of database security breaches are occurring at a very high rate on daily basis. So, there is a crucial need in the field of database forensics to make several redundant copies of sensitive data found in database server artifacts, audit logs, cache, table storage etc. for analysis purposes. Large volume of metadata is available in database infrastructure for investigation purposes but most of the effort lies in the retrieval and analysis of that information from computing systems. Thus, in this paper we mainly focus on the significance of metadata in database forensics. We proposed a system here to perform forensics analysis of database by generating its metadata file independent of the DBMS system used. We also aim to generate the digital evidence against criminals for presenting it in the court of law in the form of who, when, why, what, how and where did the fraudulent transaction occur. Thus, we are presenting a system to detect major database attacks as well as anti-forensics attacks by developing an open source database forensics tool. Eventually, we are pointing out the challenges in the field of forensics and how these challenges can be used as opportunities to stimulate the areas of database forensics. \'a9 2014 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: anti-forensics attacks;  Database forensics;  digital notarization;  linked hash technique;  metadata;  reconnaissance attack;  SQL injection;  trail obfuscation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 877\
Ayalneh, D.A., Kim, H.J., Choi, Y.S.\
56121467300;57089583800;55685931400;\
JPEG copy paste forgery detection using BAG optimized for complex images\
(2014) International Conference on Advanced Communication Technology, ICACT, art. no. 6778945, pp. 181-185. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84898948480&doi=10.1109%2fICACT.2014.6778945&partnerID=40&md5=c16768d5875b5cd5054c5c70d3b18415\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICACT.2014.6778945\
AFFILIATIONS: CIST (Center for Information Security Technologies), Korea University, South Korea; \
Division of Liberal Arts and Teaching, SungKyul University, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Image forgery detection is one of important activities of digital forensics. Forging an image has become very easy and visually confusing with the real one. Different features of an image can be used in passive forgery detection. Most of lossy compression methods demonstrate some distinct characteristics. JPEG images have a traceable zero valued DCT coefficients in the high frequency regions due to quantization. This appears as a square grid all over the image, known as Block Artifact Grid (BAG). In this paper the BAG based copy-paste forgery detection method is improved by changing the input DCT coefficients for Local Effect computation. The proposed method has shown a better performance especially for complex images. \'a9 2014 Global IT Research Institute (GIRI).\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Block Artifact Grid;  Copy-paste forgery;  JPEG;  Local Effect\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 878\
Hors-man, G., Laing, C., Vickers, P.\
55366646200;8925800300;7005903592;\
A case-based reasoning method for locating evidence during digital forensic device triage\
(2014) Decision Support Systems, 61 (1), pp. 69-78. Cited 24 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84897474289&doi=10.1016%2fj.dss.2014.01.007&partnerID=40&md5=5404afc2fc7dd8aea663cf5d2cd66fc4\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.dss.2014.01.007\
AFFILIATIONS: Northumbria University, Faculty of Engineering and Environment, Department of Computer Science and Digital Technologies, Camden Street, Newcastle-upon-Tyne NE2 1XE, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: The role of triage in digital forensics is disputed, with some practitioners questioning its reliability for identifying evidential data. Although successfully implemented in the field of medicine, triage has not established itself to the same degree in digital forensics. This article presents a novel approach to triage for digital forensics. Case-Based Reasoning Forensic Triager (CBR-FT) is a method for collecting and reusing past digital forensic investigation information in order to highlight likely evidential areas on a suspect operating system, thereby helping an investigator to decide where to search for evidence. The CBR-FT framework is discussed and the results of twenty test triage examinations are presented. CBR-FT has been shown to be a more effective method of triage when compared to a practitioner using a leading commercial application. \'a92014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Bayesian reasoning;  Case based reasoning;  Digital forensics;  Knowledge reuse;  Triage\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 879\
Cao, G., Zhao, Y., Ni, R., Ou, B., Wang, Y.\
57193213735;35304414700;55632437300;36696723900;13607280200;\
Forensic detection of noise addition in digital images\
(2014) Journal of Electronic Imaging, 23 (2), art. no. 023004, . Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84896325249&doi=10.1117%2f1.JEI.23.2.023004&partnerID=40&md5=5cf8242eb2255493859a503887a29b38\
\
DOI: 10.1117/1.JEI.23.2.023004\
AFFILIATIONS: Communication University of China, School of Computer Science, Beijing 100024, China; \
Beijing Jiaotong University, Institute of Information Science, Beijing 100044, China\
ABSTRACT: We proposed a technique to detect the global addition of noise to a digital image. As an anti-forensics tool, noise addition is typically used to disguise the visual traces of image tampering or to remove the statistical artifacts left behind by other operations. As such, the blind detection of noise addition has become imperative as well as beneficial to authenticate the image content and recover the image processing history, which is the goal of general forensics techniques. Specifically, the special image blocks, including constant and strip ones, are used to construct the features for identifying noise addition manipulation. The influence of noising on blockwise pixel value distribution is formulated and analyzed formally. The methodology of detectability recognition followed by binary decision is proposed to ensure the applicability and reliability of noising detection. Extensive experimental results demonstrate the efficacy of our proposed noising detector. \'a9 2014 SPIE and IS and T.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: digital forensics;  image analysis;  image authentication;  information security;  noise addition\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 880\
Thai, T.H., Cogranne, R., Retraint, F.\
55495982400;49360917300;6506827303;\
Camera model identification based on the heteroscedastic noise model\
(2014) IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, 23 (1), pp. 250-263. Cited 75 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84891296342&doi=10.1109%2fTIP.2013.2290596&partnerID=40&md5=c54d471674b53b35d608b4c31e2e41a0\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIP.2013.2290596\
AFFILIATIONS: Laboratory Systems Modeling and Dependability, Troyes University of Technology, Troyes 10010, France\
ABSTRACT: The goal of this paper is to design a statistical test for the camera model identification problem. The approach is based on the heteroscedastic noise model, which more accurately describes a natural raw image. This model is characterized by only two parameters, which are considered as unique fingerprint to identify camera models. The camera model identification problem is cast in the framework of hypothesis testing theory. In an ideal context where all model parameters are perfectly known, the likelihood ratio test (LRT) is presented and its performances are theoretically established. For a practical use, two generalized LRTs are designed to deal with unknown model parameters so that they can meet a prescribed false alarm probability while ensuring a high detection performance. Numerical results on simulated images and real natural raw images highlight the relevance of the proposed approach. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Camera model identification;  Digital forensics;  Hypothesis testing;  Natural image model;  Nuisance parameters\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 881\
Bulbul, H.I., Yavuzcan, H.G., Ozel, M.\
15836807000;6507536188;55892082600;\
Digital forensics: An analytical crime scene procedure model (ACSPM)\
(2013) Forensic Science International, 233 (1-3), pp. 244-256. Cited 19 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84885940943&doi=10.1016%2fj.forsciint.2013.09.007&partnerID=40&md5=4965138aeba0f4ded3904c227b385d5f\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.09.007\
AFFILIATIONS: Gazi University, Faculty of Education, Department of Computer, Education and Instructional Technologies, Turkey; \
Gazi University, Institute of Science, Faculty of Architecture, Department of Industrial Product Design, Turkey; \
Gazi University, Institute of Science, Industrial Arts Education Faculty, Industrial Technology Education Department, Turkey\
ABSTRACT: In order to ensure that digital evidence is collected, preserved, examined, or transferred in a manner safeguarding the accuracy and reliability of the evidence, law enforcement and digital forensic units must establish and maintain an effective quality assurance system. The very first part of this system is standard operating procedures (SOP's) and/or models, conforming chain of custody requirements, those rely on digital forensics "process-phase-procedure-task-subtask" sequence. An acceptable and thorough Digital Forensics (DF) process depends on the sequential DF phases, and each phase depends on sequential DF procedures, respectively each procedure depends on tasks and subtasks. There are numerous amounts of DF Process Models that define DF phases in the literature, but no DF model that defines the phase-based sequential procedures for crime scene identified. An analytical crime scene procedure model (ACSPM) that we suggest in this paper is supposed to fill in this gap. The proposed analytical procedure model for digital investigations at a crime scene is developed and defined for crime scene practitioners; with main focus on crime scene digital forensic procedures, other than that of whole digital investigation process and phases that ends up in a court. When reviewing the relevant literature and interrogating with the law enforcement agencies, only device based charts specific to a particular device and/or more general perspective approaches to digital evidence management models from crime scene to courts are found. After analyzing the needs of law enforcement organizations and realizing the absence of crime scene digital investigation procedure model for crime scene activities we decided to inspect the relevant literature in an analytical way. The outcome of this inspection is our suggested model explained here, which is supposed to provide guidance for thorough and secure implementation of digital forensic procedures at a crime scene. In digital forensic investigations each case is unique and needs special examination, it is not possible to cover every aspect of crime scene digital forensics, but the proposed procedure model is supposed to be a general guideline for practitioners. \'a9 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Chain of custody (COC);  Crime scene;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Procedure model;  Standard operating procedure (SOP)\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 882\
Hand, R., Ton, M., Keller, E.\
56022936300;55647187000;55434382400;\
Active security\
(2013) Proceedings of the 12th ACM Workshop on Hot Topics in Networks, HotNets 2013, art. no. 17, . Cited 14 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84893266021&doi=10.1145%2f2535771.2535794&partnerID=40&md5=568ea43d234415920e602bb37ed4cbcd\
\
DOI: 10.1145/2535771.2535794\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Colorado, Boulder, United States\
ABSTRACT: In this paper we introduce active security, a new methodology which introduces programmatic control within a novel feedback loop into the defense infrastructure. Active security implements a unified programming environment which provides interfaces to (i) protect the infrastructure under common attack scenarios (e.g., configure a firewall), (ii) sense the current state of the infrastructure through a wide variety of information, (iii) adjust the configuration of the infrastructure at run time based on sensed information, (iv) collect forensic evidence on-demand, at run-time for attribution, and (v) counter the attack through more advanced mechanisms such as migrating malicious code to a quarantined system. We built an initial prototype that extends the FloodLight software-defined networking controller to automatically interface with the Snort intrusion detection system to detect anomalies, the Linux Memory Extractor to collect forensic evidence at run-time, and the Volatility parsing tool to extract an executable from physical memory and analyze information about the malware (which can then be used by the active security system to better secure the infrastructure). Copyright 2013 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Central management;  Digital forensics;  Network security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 883\
Surapong, P.\
36613493300;\
Framework and estimation of ear biometrics detection for digital forensic applications\
(2013) BMEiCON 2013 - 6th Biomedical Engineering International Conference, art. no. 6687683, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84893237482&doi=10.1109%2fBMEiCon.2013.6687683&partnerID=40&md5=d79d85126774cb1332dbc7a63a8cfc1d\
\
DOI: 10.1109/BMEiCon.2013.6687683\
AFFILIATIONS: Realtime Information Electronic and Embedded Systems (RIEES) Lab, Computer Engineering Department, Ramkhamhaeng University, Bangkapi, Bangkok 10240, Thailand\
ABSTRACT: Currently, forensic electronics and computers become an attractive scientific and engineering application area. They are applied to determine and identify accused or evidences used in court. However, the determination, verification and identification processes have been manually executed by experts, where they take time to come out conclusions and results. With rapidly increment of illegal cases, reducing the processing time or verifying step to identify possible suspects is significantly importance to increase efficiency. This paper first introduces a framework to identify possible suspects purpose to primary screening in forensic application. The identification of human ears in several degrees based on edge detection techniques is second considered. With the edge detection techniques corresponding to their suitable input parameters, our experimental results, with a 0.3 threshold and a 0.75 factor k, have reported that the human's ear identities can be detected and extracted. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 884\
St\'f6be, R., H\'f6fken, H., Schuba, M., Breuer, M.\
56001997000;55488776900;6602945153;56001817800;\
Artificial aging of mobile devices using a simulated GSM/GPRS network\
(2013) Proceedings - 2013 International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security, ARES 2013, art. no. 6657280, pp. 493-497. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84892408033&doi=10.1109%2fARES.2013.64&partnerID=40&md5=bdc1caeea0aa0841928a0a447cc2fa80\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ARES.2013.64\
AFFILIATIONS: Aachen University of Applied Sciences, Aachen, Germany; \
State Office of Criminal Investigation, North Rhine-Westphalia, D\'fcsseldorf, Germany\
ABSTRACT: The analysis of mobile devices is a fast moving area in digital forensics. Investigators frequently are challenged by devices which are not supported by existing mobile forensic tools. Low level techniques like de-soldering the flash memory chip and extracting its data provide an investigator with the exhibits internal memory, however, the interpretation of the data can be difficult as mobile device and flash chip manufacturers use their own proprietary techniques to encode and store data. The approach presented in this paper helps investigators to analyze this proprietary encoding by feeding a reference device identical to the exhibit with real data in a controlled way. This 'artificial ageing' of the reference device is achieved using an isolated GSM/GPRS network plus additional software in a lab environment. After the ageing process is completed, the internal memory of the reference device can be acquired and used to reverse engineer the high level file system and the encoding of the data previously fed to the phone, like received SMS messages or calls. When sufficient knowledge about the interpretation of the memory image has been built up, it can be applied to the original evidence in order to analyze data and files relevant for the case. The successful operation of the solution is demonstrated in a proof of concept for SMS messages. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Forensics;  GPRS;  GSM;  Mobile Devices;  Physical Image;  Reverse Engineering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 885\
Van Den Bos, J., Van Der Storm, T.\
42162324700;23399139300;\
TRINITY: An IDE for the matrix\
(2013) IEEE International Conference on Software Maintenance, ICSM, art. no. 6676947, pp. 520-523. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84891687666&doi=10.1109%2fICSM.2013.86&partnerID=40&md5=9cfe76d1574dda240a3111613fc1b839\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICSM.2013.86\
AFFILIATIONS: Netherlands Forensic Institute (NFI), The Hague, Netherlands; \
Centrum Wiskunde and Informatica (CWI), Amsterdam, Netherlands\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics software often has to be changed to cope with new variants and versions of file formats. Developers reverse engineer the actual files, and then change the source code of the analysis tools. This process is error-prone and time consuming because the relation between the newly encountered data and how the source code must be changed is implicit. TRINITY is an integrated debugging environment which makes this relation explicit using the DERRIC DSL for describing file formats. TRINITY consists of three simultaneous views: 1) the runtime state of an analysis, 2) a hex view of the actual data, and 3) the file format description. Cross-view trace ability links allow developers to better understand how the file format description should be modified. TRINITY aims to make the process of adapting digital forensics software more effective and efficient. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Domain-specific language;  Integrated development environment;  Model-driven engineering;  Reverse engineering;  Software maintenance\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 886\
Chang, C.-P., Chen, C.-T., Lu, T.-H., Lin, I.-L., Huang, P., Lu, H.-S.\
55926465700;8873154400;55201821800;15925460000;55926283000;55926147000;\
Study on constructing forensic procedure of digital evidence on smart handheld device\
(2013) ICSSE 2013 - IEEE International Conference on System Science and Engineering, Proceedings, art. no. 6614664, pp. 223-228. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84887488233&doi=10.1109%2fICSSE.2013.6614664&partnerID=40&md5=aef5889db942d2977fa8368af3f81477\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICSSE.2013.6614664\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Mechatronic Engineering, Huafan University, Taipei, Taiwan; \
Department of Information Management, Huafan University, Taipei, Taiwan; \
Department of Information Management, Yuanpei University, HsinChu, Taiwan; \
IForensics Digital Lnc., Taipei, Taiwan; \
Department of Information Management, Kang-Ning Junior College of Medical Care and Management, Taipei City, Taiwan\
ABSTRACT: As Information and Communication Technology grows the mobile communication devices became to necessary instrument in our daily living. According to DIGITIMES Research on 2012: the smart phone reached 635 millions a year and this number will be growing up 30% on 2013. It took 43.9% market share on overall cellular phone. By integrate operating system, camera, recorder, network, Bluetooth, calendar, multi-media texting and millions of Apps.; the powerful hardware and software of mobile devices provide highly mobility with powerful function to meet every kind of services and invite modern criminal use mobile devices as tools to achieve their activities. This study based on a guideline recommended by NSLEC (British National Specialist Law Enforcement Centre) and tried to propose a standard operating procedure of digital evidence forensic on smart phone; mean while, uses common handheld device forensic tools used by law enforcement departments as primary instruments to optimize and liabilities of digital evidences during preservation, collection, validation, identification, analysis, interpretation, documentation and presentation processes. Therefore strengthen the procedures used by forensic operator to complete the forensic processes quickly; and enhance the provable and authenticable of digital evidences. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Evidence;  Digital Forensic;  High-Tech Criminal;  Smart Phone;  Standard Operating Procedures on Digital Forensic\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 887\
Chang, C.-P., Chen, C.-T., Lu, T.-H., Lin, I.-L., Chang, J., Lin, C.-C.\
55926465700;8873154400;55201821800;15925460000;55925572700;55926524800;\
Study on constructing malware attack forensic procedure of digital evidence\
(2013) ICSSE 2013 - IEEE International Conference on System Science and Engineering, Proceedings, art. no. 6614699, pp. 401-406. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84887425379&doi=10.1109%2fICSSE.2013.6614699&partnerID=40&md5=dd0603f3db49ebcb169a47eef475583d\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICSSE.2013.6614699\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Mechatronic Engineering, Huafan University, Taipei, Taiwan; \
Department of Information Management, Huafan University, Taipei, Taiwan; \
Department of Information Management, Yuanpei University, HsinChu, China; \
Acro Technology Company, Taipei, Taiwan\
ABSTRACT: This study intended to improve two common problems of digital evidences: preservation and ease to modified; during preservation, collection, validation, identification, analysis, interpretation, documentation and presentation processes. We used I-Forensics (LiveDetector & LiveSearch) tools kit to explore digital evidence of malware attack in Windows system to produces a standard operation procedure. The main purpose is to provide forensic operators a reliable and accountable standard and guideline mechanism. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Evidence;  Digital Forensic;  Standard Operating Procedures\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 888 **SELECTED** SID: 49\
B\'f6hme, R., Kirchner, M.\
56213351900;23135003200;\
Counter-forensics: Attacking image forensics\
(2013) Digital Image Forensics: There is More to a Picture than Meets the Eye, 9781461407577, pp. 327-366. Cited 78 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84929134231&doi=10.1007%2f978-1-4614-0757-7_12&partnerID=40&md5=ec2f89f0257daa3714fbbc06d1997005\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4614-0757-7_12\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Systems, Westf\'e4lische Wilhelms-Universit\'e4t M\'fcnster, Leonardo-Campus 3, Muenster, Germany; \
International Computer Science Institute, 1947 Center Street, Berkeley, United States\
ABSTRACT: This chapter discusses counter-forensics, the art and science of impeding or misleading forensic analyses of digital images. Research on counter-forensics is motivated by the need to assess and improve the reliability of forensic methods in situations where intelligent adversaries make efforts to induce a certain outcome of forensic analyses. Counter-forensics is first defined in a formal decision-theoretic framework. This framework is then interpreted and extended to encompass the requirements to forensic analyses in practice, including a discussion of the notion of authenticity in the presence of legitimate processing, and the role of image models with regard to the epistemic underpinning of the forensic decision problem. A terminology is developed that distinguishes security from robustness properties, integrated from post-processing attacks, and targeted from universal attacks. This terminology is directly applied in a self-contained technical survey of counter-forensics against image forensics, notably techniques that suppress traces of image processing and techniques that synthesize traces of authenticity, including examples and brief evaluations. A discussion of relations to other domains of multimedia security and an overview of open research questions concludes the chapter. \'a9 Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013. All rights are reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 889\
Johnson, M.K.\
8579839200;\
Detecting doctored images\
(2013) Digital Image Forensics: There is More to a Picture than Meets the Eye, 9781461407577, pp. 257-274. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84929133240&doi=10.1007%2f978-1-4614-0757-7_9&partnerID=40&md5=5e3063283357028c08aaaa252ed6045f\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4614-0757-7_9\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, United States\
ABSTRACT: With the availability of powerful image-editing software, digital cameras, and a wealth of online imagery, almost anyone can doctor an image. Consequently, image hoaxes are now commonplace and people even expect that images of celebrities have been retouched. For many, seeing is no longer believing. While most doctored images are made for entertainment or artistic purposes, they have also shown up in courtrooms as evidence and in scientific publications. The presence of manipulated images in these settings is troubling and the field of digital image forensics has emerged to address this growing problem. This chapter provides an overview of current tools for detecting doctored images and discusses trends that have emerged in the field. Several tools are described in detail and references are provided for related techniques. \'a9 Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013. All rights are reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 890\
Dirik, A.E.\
23033658100;\
Source attribution based on physical defects in light path\
(2013) Digital Image Forensics: There is More to a Picture than Meets the Eye, 9781461407577, pp. 219-236. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84929133141&doi=10.1007%2f978-1-4614-0757-7_7&partnerID=40&md5=ac4abdc805aa6d884d32f91b94d63386\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4614-0757-7_7\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Engineering and Architecture, Department of Electronics Engineering, Uludag University, Nilufer, Bursa, Turkey\
ABSTRACT: Recent studies in multimedia forensics show that digital images contain intrinsic patterns, traces, and marks generated by imaging pipeline components (sensor) and processes (demosaicing and color adjustment). Some of these patterns and marks, such as photo response non-uniformity noise (PRNU), are unique to individual component characteristics of imaging system. Similar to PRNU noise, physical defects in imaging pipeline such as dust particles in DSLR camera chamber, scratches on flatbed scanners also generate unique patterns in image output. Due to unique and random nature of these patterns, they can be utilized in digital image forensics problems. In this chapter, we will give an overview of state-of-the-art camera identification techniques which utilize such defects and patterns. \'a9 Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013. All rights are reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 891\
Deever, A., Kumar, M., Pillman, B.\
6602877144;16417401500;6508010836;\
Digital camera image formation: Processing and storage\
(2013) Digital Image Forensics: There is More to a Picture than Meets the Eye, 9781461407577, pp. 45-77. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84929130795&doi=10.1007%2f978-1-4614-0757-7_2&partnerID=40&md5=cd31ae14c7e3aa4e9d0348f4b214930f\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4614-0757-7_2\
AFFILIATIONS: Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, United States\
ABSTRACT: This chapter presents a high-level overview of image formation in a digital camera, highlighting aspects of potential interest in forensic applications. The discussion here focuses on image processing, especially processing steps related to concealing artifacts caused by camera hardware or that tend to create artifacts themselves. Image storage format issues are also discussed. \'a9 Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013. All rights are reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 892\
Li, Q.\
55703357500;\
Searching and extracting digital image evidence\
(2013) Digital Image Forensics: There is More to a Picture than Meets the Eye, 9781461407577, pp. 123-153. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84892393616&doi=10.1007%2f978-1-4614-0757-7_4&partnerID=40&md5=3c51cfad76e08c250e0ad16013b1ccca\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4614-0757-7_4\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore, Singapore\
ABSTRACT: Searching and extracting digital images are important tasks in disaster recovery and digital forensics. Many modern file systems arrange data in complex ways, and files are often fragmented, which makes these tasks very challenging, especially when the file systems or the underlying storage media are damaged or corrupted. To design efficient and accurate data recovery systems, we require not only the understanding of the underlying file systems, but also the nature of the data in question. In this chapter, we will discuss the difficulties in searching and extracting digital images from possibly corrupted file systems, and introduce some recent advances. \'a9 Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013. All rights are reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 893\
Marson, G.A., Poettering, B.\
55537713000;36245578000;\
Practical secure logging: Seekable sequential key generators\
(2013) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 8134 LNCS, pp. 111-128. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84884746941&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-40203-6_7&partnerID=40&md5=476f8bea8ef332ccf339d63e6035e1b0\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-40203-6_7\
AFFILIATIONS: CASED, TU Darmstadt, Germany; \
Information Security Group, Royal Holloway, University of London, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: In computer forensics, log files are indispensable resources that support auditors in identifying and understanding system threats and security breaches. If such logs are recorded locally, i.e., stored on the monitored machine itself, the problem of log authentication arises: if a system intrusion takes place, the intruder might be able to manipulate the log entries and cover her traces. Mechanisms that cryptographically protect collected log messages from manipulation should ideally have two properties: they should be forward-secure (the adversary gets no advantage from learning current keys when aiming at forging past log entries), and they should be seekable (the auditor can verify the integrity of log entries in any order, at virtually no computational cost). We propose a new cryptographic primitive, a seekable sequential key generator (SSKG), that combines these two properties and has direct application in secure logging. We rigorously formalize the required security properties and give a provably-secure construction based on the integer factorization problem. We further optimize the scheme in various ways, preparing it for real-world deployment. As a byproduct, we develop the notion of a shortcut one-way permutation (SCP), which might be of independent interest. Our work is highly relevant in practice. Indeed, our SSKG implementation has become part of the logging service of the systemd system manager, a core component of many modern commercial Linux-based operating systems. \'a9 2013 Springer-Verlag.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 894\
St\'fcttgen, J., Dewald, A., Freiling, F.C.\
54785301700;36096530300;13007598800;\
Selective imaging revisited\
(2013) Proceedings - 7th International Conference on IT Security Incident Management and IT Forensics, IMF 2013, art. no. 6568553, pp. 45-58. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84883443393&doi=10.1109%2fIMF.2013.16&partnerID=40&md5=8db6564935b3e610bedd0dc5603ad1cb\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IMF.2013.16\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Friedrich-Alexander-University, Erlangen, Germany\
ABSTRACT: The standard procedure for the acquisition of digital evidence in forensic investigations is to produce a bit-wise 1:1 copy of the original data on a digital storage device. This is often called imaging and becoming a bottleneck in modern digital investigations. The notion of selective imaging was introduced by Turner in 2005 and associated with the decision not to acquire all possible information during the evidence capture process. In this paper, we precisely define the term selective imaging, thereby generalizing the concept to allow acquisition of data objects in any combination and from any level of abstraction. We have implemented this approach as a plug in for the open source Digital Forensics Framework (DFF) using a container format based on the Advanced Forensic Framework 4 (AFF4). We present some design and implementation details as well as a performance evaluation. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Forensics;  Evidence Acquisition;  Selective Imaging\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 895\
V\'f6mel, S., Lenz, H.\
42662437600;55841994900;\
Visualizing indicators of rootkit infections in memory forensics\
(2013) Proceedings - 7th International Conference on IT Security Incident Management and IT Forensics, IMF 2013, art. no. 6568559, pp. 122-139. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84883377886&doi=10.1109%2fIMF.2013.12&partnerID=40&md5=db52f00e4bc516b2c5f276bf47ff96e4\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IMF.2013.12\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Friedrich-Alexander-University, Martensstra\'dfe 3, 91058 Erlangen, Germany; \
Thor GmbH, Landwehrstra\'dfe 1, 67346 Speyer, Germany\
ABSTRACT: Research in the area of memory forensics has been flourishing over the last years, and powerful analysis frameworks such as Volatility have been developed. While these frameworks permit examining a forensic memory snapshot in great detail, they mainly aim at experienced investigators with a thorough knowledge of operating system internals. On the other hand, result correlation and interpretation is especially demanding for personnel with only marginal forensic expertise as they are often found in IT departments of smaller- and medium-sized enterprises. This task becomes even more challenging when attempting to detect traces of sophisticated malicious applications such as root kits. In this paper, we present rkfinder, a plug-in for the well-known forensic framework DFF, that integrates major capabilities of Volatility into an intuitive and easy-to-use graphical user interface. Rkfinder generates an abstract, tree-like view of the system state, implements checks that are capable of revealing inconsistencies, and automatically highlights suspicious objects that may indicate the presence of a threat. Thereby, potential sources of a system infection are better visible and can be better addressed in the course of incident response. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Forensics Framework;  memory analysis;  memory forensics;  rootkit detection;  Volatility\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 896\
Zawoad, S., Hasan, R.\
55734641700;8529353900;\
Digital forensics in the cloud\
(2013) CrossTalk, 26 (5), pp. 17-20. Cited 16 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84891060892&partnerID=40&md5=27b21198a5a28084aca55f5fd48f869b\
\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Alabama at Birmingham, United States\
ABSTRACT: Today's cloud computing architectures often lack support for computer forensic investigations. Besides this, the existing digital forensics tools cannot cope with the dynamic nature of the cloud. This paper explores the challenges of digital forensics in the cloud, possible attacks on cloud-evidence, and mitigation strategies against those challenges.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 897\
Chu, H.-C., Lo, C.-H., Chao, H.-C.\
35172482900;7401771690;7202973858;\
The disclosure of an Android smartphone's digital footprint respecting the Instant Messaging utilizing Skype and MSN\
(2013) Electronic Commerce Research, 13 (3), pp. 399-410. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84886289492&doi=10.1007%2fs10660-013-9116-1&partnerID=40&md5=6df62b26d3209b9aac74888fb53c5d0c\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s10660-013-9116-1\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of International Business, National Taichung University of Education, 140 Min-Shen Rd., Taichung, 40306, Taiwan; \
Department of Electronic Engineering, Institute of Computer Science and Information Engineering, National Ilan University, No. 1, Sec. 1, Shen-Lung Rd., I-Lan, 26047, Taiwan\
ABSTRACT: As Android Operating System (OS) for mobile computing devices become one of the major trends, the utilization of smartphones set the record for global users and they are taking advantages of the contemporary Instant Messaging (IM) as a convenient tool to communicate with global users in real time because of its competitive rate, high availability, robust reliability, and agile mobility. Undoubtedly, as IM has gradually become one of the channels to commit the cybercrime, the digital evidence collection, analysis, and preservation of the non-volatile data from the Random Access Memory (RAM) of the computing device in terms of cyber trails that were unknowingly left on the crime scene. Hence, this research conducts the design of the experiments to fulfill the essence of contribution of the paper. The Skype Chat and MSN are the popular IM tools, which are widely utilized in contemporary digital era. This paper provides a generic paradigm for the digital forensics specialists and law enforcement agencies to ponder if similar situations are faced. \'a9 2013 Springer Science+Business Media New York.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android smartphone;  Digital evidence recovery;  MSN instant messaging;  Non-volatile memory;  Skype Chat\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 898\
Ohana, D.J., Shashidhar, N.\
55832480200;24491087900;\
Do private and portable web browsers leave incriminating evidence? A forensic analysis of residual artifacts from private and portable web browsing sessions\
(2013) Proceedings - IEEE CS Security and Privacy Workshops, SPW 2013, art. no. 6565242, pp. 135-142. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84882803396&doi=10.1109%2fSPW.2013.18&partnerID=40&md5=484b7aebd00b395a6b84e5e514b39ebf\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SPW.2013.18\
AFFILIATIONS: Sam Houston State University, Huntsville, TX, United States\
ABSTRACT: The Internet is an essential tool for everyday tasks. Aside from common usage, users desire the option to browse the Internet in a private manner. This can create a problem when private Internet sessions become hidden from computer investigators in need of evidence. Our primary focus in this research is to discover residual artifacts from private and portable browsing sessions. In addition, the artifacts must contain more than just file fragments and enough to establish an affirmative link between user and session. Certain aspects of this topic have triggered many questions, but there have not been enough authoritative answers to follow. As a result, we propose a new methodology for analyzing private and portable web browsing artifacts. Furthermore, our research will serve to be a significant resource for law enforcement, computer forensic investigators, and the digital forensics research community. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Browser Artifacts;  Internet Forensics;  Portable Browsers;  Private Browsing;  RAM Analysis;  Secret Browsing;  Untraceable Browsing;  USB Browser\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 899\
Valera, J., Garcia, N.\
55817566500;7202945116;\
Unambiguous interpolation rate estimation in uncompressed resized color digital images\
(2013) 2013 International Workshop on Biometrics and Forensics, IWBF 2013, art. no. 6547314, . Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84881335486&doi=10.1109%2fIWBF.2013.6547314&partnerID=40&md5=6902ffc6ba409b656d3da80bd6dada0c\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IWBF.2013.6547314\
AFFILIATIONS: Grupo de Tratamiento de Im\'e1genes, Universidad Polit\'e9cnica de Madrid, Madrid 28040, Spain\
ABSTRACT: A method is proposed for unambiguously determining the interpolation rate in uncompressed resized color images over a broad range of possible rates, thus overcoming the uncertainty exposed in previous papers. Information from the three RGB channels is combined to improve performance. Experimental results show high reliability in the posteriori probability of correct classification, yielding an average value of 81.7% and 90.3% in the case of images with a CFA type sensor. The proposed method is also used for the automatic detection of CFA traces with good results. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  image authentication;  interpolation rate;  linear predictor;  resampling detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 900\
Castiglione, A., Cattaneo, G., De Maio, G., De Santis, A.\
16027997000;7103222430;49661193400;6602419751;\
Forensically-sound methods to collect live network evidence\
(2013) Proceedings - International Conference on Advanced Information Networking and Applications, AINA, art. no. 6531784, pp. 405-412. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84881066297&doi=10.1109%2fAINA.2013.133&partnerID=40&md5=4324d227c46aa80ed32e9f140276ae99\
\
DOI: 10.1109/AINA.2013.133\
AFFILIATIONS: Dipartimento di Informatica, Universit\'e0 degli Studi, Salerno, Italy\
ABSTRACT: In the last decade Digital Forensics has experienced several issues when dealing with network evidence. An analyst, which is in charge of managing evidence flowing over a network have to face problems due to the volatile nature of such information. In facts, such data may change over time, may be lying on a server out of the his jurisdiction, or geographically far from where the crime was committed. In this paper two methods to allow remote collection of network evidence produced by online services such as web pages, chats, documents, photos and videos are presented. They enable the analyst to drive the acquisition process through the online services considered potential sources of evidence. During the process, all data flowing through the network is automatically collected (i.e., all the IP packets). The second one also collects the graphical representation of the acquisition (e.g., how the browser visualizes such data). Both methods introduce a trusted third party (acting as a digital notary) which is in charge of collecting and "certifying" network evidence. Before closing the acquisition process, a detailed report of the collected evidence is generated and made available to the analyst along with the collected data. Cryptographic primitives are used to demonstrate ex post data integrity, how it has been acquired and the acquisition time. As a proof of concept two prototypes have been implemented. To enhance the Court confidence of the collected evidence, at the same time, the service could be run across multiple coordinated servers acquiring the same data from different point of the network. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Certified network acquisitions;  Digital Forensics;  Digital investigations;  Live network acquisitions;  Live network investigation;  Network forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 901\
Van Den Bos, J., Van Der Storm, T.\
42162324700;23399139300;\
A case study in evidence-based DSL evolution\
(2013) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 7949 LNCS, pp. 207-219. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84879854692&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-39013-5_15&partnerID=40&md5=7c0f03344c184e97f8c85391dc518e56\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-39013-5_15\
AFFILIATIONS: Centrum Wiskunde and Informatica, Amsterdam, Netherlands; \
Netherlands Forensic Institute, Den Haag, Netherlands\
ABSTRACT: Domain-specific languages (dsls) can significantly increase productivity and quality in software construction. However, even dsl programs need to evolve to accomodate changing requirements and circumstances. How can we know if the design of a dsl supports the relevant evolution scenarios on its programs? We present an experimental approach to evaluate the evolutionary capabilities of a dsl and apply it on a dsl for digital forensics, called DERRIC. Our results indicate that the majority of required changes to DERRIC programs are easily expressed. However, some scenarios suggest that the dsl design can be improved to prevent future maintenance problems. Our experimental approach can be considered first steps towards evidence-based dsl evolution. \'a9 2013 Springer-Verlag.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 902\
Wang, S., Niu, X.\
54911241600;7103278179;\
Hiding traces of double compression in JPEG images based on Tabu Search\
(2013) Neural Computing and Applications, 22 (SUPPL.1), pp. 283-291. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84878016251&doi=10.1007%2fs00521-012-0841-5&partnerID=40&md5=b953a84ea5e2b5f00624c9ee1e983807\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s00521-012-0841-5\
AFFILIATIONS: Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin, 150001, China\
ABSTRACT: With the development of digital forensic techniques, the image disguise (also called image tampering or image manipulation) is challenged greatly. When the tampered JPEG image is saved, it was re-compressed. This progress causes radical change in the histogram of the discrete cosine transformation (DCT) coefficients. The amounts of some coefficient values decrease greatly or even disappear. It is easily to detect this pattern by statistics methods. To remove the fragility of image disguise, we need to revise the abnormal distribution of DCT coefficients. But random change in the coefficient values degrades the image quality. So we established an image disguising evaluation model aims at the JPEG recompression detection which can be solved by Tabu Search algorithm. Under the restraint of the evaluation model, the traces of double compression are removed, and the image quality is well preserved. \'a9 2012 Springer-Verlag London Limited.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Double compression;  Evaluation model;  Image disguise;  Tabu Search\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 903\
Kaimal, A.B., Manimurugan, S., Rajivkumar, J., Anitha\
55617475500;38661419700;55638385100;35099994900;\
A new technique for removing forensically detectable traces from digital images\
(2013) 7th International Conference on Intelligent Systems and Control, ISCO 2013, art. no. 6481171, pp. 321-324. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84875755368&doi=10.1109%2fISCO.2013.6481171&partnerID=40&md5=1d831bdb6dade864a8ba5fb1b5acb4a5\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISCO.2013.6481171\
ABSTRACT: The power of digital images on modern society is unbelievable. As the People become ever more depend on these images for visual communication. But storing images in a secure way has become very convoluted. There are a number of techniques that can be used to verify the authenticity of images. Despite the fact that many image forgery detection techniques are presented, the number of image tampering is increasing. As a result it is vital to find the limitations of offered detection methods to avoid further forgeries. In this paper, a new technique is considered to remove the forensically detectable traces from digital images. It also explains how it can be used to create unnoticeable forgeries. The proposed method works through the stimation, examination and alteration of the image's transform coefficients. The existing tampering detection techniques make use of image compression history to find the forgeries. Here the proposed technique uses a specially designed noise to eliminate the indicators of compression. A proper addition of this specially designed noise helps the modified image to appear as an uncompressed one. This technique can be used in the similar way as existing methods to cover the history of operations performed on an image in the past in addition with that it can also be used to alter the digital signatures added to the images and there by rendering several forms of image tampering. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  DCT Coefficients;  Digital Forensics;  Image Coefficients;  Image History;  JPEG Compression;  Quantization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 904\
Aziz, B., Blackwell, C., Islam, S.\
13104900100;26421612200;57207786150;\
A framework for digital forensics and investigations: The goal-driven approach\
(2013) International Journal of Digital Crime and Forensics, 5 (2), pp. 1-22. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84893469860&doi=10.4018%2fjdcf.2013040101&partnerID=40&md5=6023026c9986d121fb06407b318a7fe5\
\
DOI: 10.4018/jdcf.2013040101\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computing, University of Portsmouth, Portsmouth, United Kingdom; \
Department of Computing and Communication Technologies, Oxford Brookes University, Oxford, United Kingdom; \
School of Architecture, Computing and Engineering, University of East London, London, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics investigations are an important task for collecting evidence based on the artifacts left in computer systems for computer related crimes. The requirements of such investigations are often a neglected aspect in most of the existing models of digital investigations. Therefore, a formal and systematic approach is needed to provide a framework for modeling and reasoning about the requirements of digital investigations. In addition, anti-forensics situations make the forensic investigation process challenging by contaminating any stage of the investigation process, its requirements, or by destroying the evidence. Therefore, successful forensic investigations require understanding the possible anti-forensic issues during the investigation. In this paper, the authors present a new method for guiding digital forensics investigations considering the anti-forensics based on goal-driven requirements engineering methodologies, in particular KAOS. Methodologies like KAOS facilitate modeling and reasoning about goals, requirements and obstacles, as well as their operationalization and responsibility assignments. The authors believe that this new method will lead in the future to better management and organization of the various steps of forensics investigations in cyberspace as well as provide more robust grounds for reasoning about forensic evidence. Copyright \'a9 2013, IGI Global.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-Forensics;  Digital Forensics;  Investigative Methodologies;  KAOS;  Requirements Engineering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 905\
Kaimal, A.B., Manimurugan, S., Anitha, J.\
55617475500;38661419700;35099994900;\
A modified anti-forensic technique for removing detectable traces from digital images\
(2013) 2013 International Conference on Computer Communication and Informatics, ICCCI 2013, art. no. 6466109, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84874749601&doi=10.1109%2fICCCI.2013.6466109&partnerID=40&md5=2a53a7d9654d310cbd183466f51cfcc0\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICCCI.2013.6466109\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering, Karunya University, India\
ABSTRACT: The increasing attractiveness and trust on digital photography has given rise to new acceptability issues in the field of image forensics. There are many advantages to using digital images. Digital cameras produce immediate images, allowing the photographer to outlook the images and immediately decide whether the photographs are sufficient without the postponement of waiting for the film and prints to be processed. It does not require external developing or reproduction. Furthermore, digital images are easily stored. No conventional 'original image' is prepared here like traditional camera. Therefore when forensic researchers analyze the images they don't have access to the original image to compare. Fraud by conventional photograph is relatively difficult, requiring technical expertise. Whereas significant features of digital photography is the ease and the decreased cost in altering the image. Manipulation of digital images is simpler. With some fundamental software, a digitally-recorded image can easily be edited. The most of the alterations include borrowing, cloning, removal and switching parts of a digital image. A number of techniques are available to verify the authenticity of images. But the fact is that number of image tampering is also increasing. The forensic researchers need to find new techniques to detect the tampering. For this purpose they have to find the new anti-forensic techniques and solutions for them. In this paper a new anti-forensic technique is considered, which is capable of removing the evidences of compression and filtering. It is done by adding a specially designed noise called tailored noise to the image after processing. This method can be used to cover the history of processing in addition to that it can be also used to remove the signature traces of filtering. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: DCT Coefficients;  Digital forensics;  Filtering;  Image coefficients;  Image history;  JPEG compression;  Quantization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 906\
Lim, J.-H., Song, C.-W., Chung, K.-Y., Rim, K.-W., Lee, J.-H.\
55603444500;55579872700;25927027500;9245278900;56812733300;\
Forensic evidence collection procedures of smartphone in crime scene\
(2013) Lecture Notes in Electrical Engineering, 215 LNEE, pp. 35-41. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84874142972&doi=10.1007%2f978-94-007-5860-5_5&partnerID=40&md5=5541be9868c5fe69a7714a220afaaa1b\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-94-007-5860-5_5\
AFFILIATIONS: School of International Affairs and Information, Dongguk University, 26, Pil-dong, Jung-gu, Seoul, South Korea; \
HCI Laboratory, Yonghyeon 1, 4-dong, Nam-gu, Incheon, South Korea; \
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Inha Univ., Yonghyeon 1, 4-dong, Nam-gu, Incheon, South Korea; \
School of Computer Information Engineering, Sangji University, 83 Sangjidae-gil, Wonju-si, Gangwon-do, South Korea; \
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Sunmoon University, Galsan-ri, Tangjeong-myeon, Asan-si, Chungcheongnam-do, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: As the Smart phone becomes gradually generalized and expands its influence on daily life, the digital evidential matter could be an important clue to prove criminal charge in the forensic process of criminal accident. Since the digital evidential matter could be easily spoiled, fabricated and disappeared, it needs to secure the criminal related evidence promptly as applicable according to clear procedures when investigate the initial scene of accident. Thus, this paper induces forensic procedures and items which a digital forensic investigator should take when it seizes, searches and verifies the Smart phone in the scene of accident considering characteristics of the Smart phone and establishes a criminal related search database and shows what kind of evidential matter for criminal charge could be collected through the applications implemented based on the said search database. \'a9 2013 Springer Science+Business Media.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Evidence collection;  Procedure;  Smartphone forensic\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 907\
Zhong, X., Zeng, F.\
36652200600;35338203500;\
A new approach of computer forensics based on steganalysis\
(2013) Advanced Materials Research, 631-632, pp. 1385-1389. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84873845465&doi=10.4028%2fwww.scientific.net%2fAMR.631-632.1385&partnerID=40&md5=dcf3ab2fdc171db5b97c1175c313eb9c\
\
DOI: 10.4028/www.scientific.net/AMR.631-632.1385\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science Jiaying University, Meizhou, Guangdong, China\
ABSTRACT: Criminals often destructed or hided evidence after making crime by computer, they hindered computer forensics by anti-forensics technology. A new approach of computer forensics based on steganalysis is proposed. The common anti-forensics technologies, such as steganography, data encryption delete evidence and make forensics invalid. In order to enhance the evidence efficiency, steganalysis is applied in the computer forensics to collect and transfer evidence. Simulation results show that steganography based on least significant bit (LSB) by java program embeds the text files into the BMP image files, which sizes are nearly invariable. Steganalysis restores the hidden information and provides convenient method for computer forensics. \'a9 (2013) Trans Tech Publications, Switzerland.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer anti-forensics;  Computer forensics;  LSB;  Steganalysis;  Steganography\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 908\
Roberts, M.P., Haggerty, J.\
56579559400;16636196100;\
MetaFor: Metadata signatures for automated remote file identification in forensic investigations\
(2013) Proceedings of the European Information Security Multi-Conference, EISMC 2013, pp. 123-132. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84926204971&partnerID=40&md5=c1e5da049c7426935afe758a05196f40\
\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computing, Science and Engineering, University of Salford, Greater Manchester, M5 4WT, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: The increased use of the Internet to store data ensures that it provides a valuable resource for a forensics examiner during an investigation. Of particular interest is evidence related to the dissemination of indecent images of children that are spread via social networking sites and Web fora. This paper posits a novel approach, MetaFor, which using a Web crawler searches for metadata signatures for automated identification of files residing on remote Web servers. In this way, it may identify potential repositories of illegal images or sources of evidence related to traditional crimes, such as utilising geo-location metadata to identify digital pictures taken during a crime in progress. This approach differs from other forensic signature schemes in that it utilises JPEG header metadata rather than image or file data as the basis of a signature. In this way, MetaFor can be extended to search for unknown files that may be relevant to an investigation. In order to demonstrate the applicability of the approach, this paper applies the approach to a case study of two Web servers and presents the results.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Image files;  Signature analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 909\
Yan, C.\
57199040774;\
Research on forensic identification of forged images\
(2013) Proceedings - 2013 International Conference on Mechatronic Sciences, Electric Engineering and Computer, MEC 2013, art. no. 6885238, pp. 1152-1155. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84918590069&doi=10.1109%2fMEC.2013.6885238&partnerID=40&md5=5872a592e69521e05cba53b1a09d64fc\
\
DOI: 10.1109/MEC.2013.6885238\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, East China University of Political Science and Law, Shanghai, China\
ABSTRACT: Fake images have become ubiquitous today in society. Identifying the authenticity and integrity of digital images becomes increasingly important in digital forensics cases. This paper presents a review of some significant work in the field of image forensic and builds an image forensic system to verify the forged evidences by analyzing the EXIF information and statistical features. Some synthetic examples and perceptually credible forgeries are tested in this paper. Experimental results show the effectiveness of these techniques in our system. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: EXIF;  Fake image;  Forensic system\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 910\
International Symposium on Security in Computing and Communications, SSCC 2013\
(2013) Communications in Computer and Information Science, 377 CCIS, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84904880477&partnerID=40&md5=c9dc7baae819b41434adf72ac8070745\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 39 papers. The special focus in this conference is on Security in Computing and Communications. The topics include: A novel approach for a hardware-based secure process isolation in an embedded system; signature embedding in the functional description of reversible circuit; detecting laser fault injection for smart cards using security automata; a more efficient and secure authentication scheme over insecure networks using smart cards; emulating a high interaction honeypot to monitor intrusion activity; on pseudo-random number generation using elliptic curve cryptography; exploiting functional models to assess the security aspect in embedded system design; a survey of traditional and cloud specific security issues; a chaos based method for efficient cryptographic S-box design; a novel approach for monitoring SQL anti-forensic attacks using pattern matching for digital forensic investigation; slide attacks against iterated hill ciphers; efficient hierarchical key management scheme based on polynomial construction; hand vein authentication system using dynamic ROI; short attribute-based group signature without random oracles with attribute anonymity; VM profile based optimized network attack pattern detection scheme for DDOS attacks in cloud; implementation and embellishment of prevention of keylogger spyware attacks; secure multimedia transmission in P2P using recurence relation and evolutionary algorithm; recent trends in collection of software forensics artifacts; service dependencies-aware policy enforcement framework based on hierarchical colored Petri Net; securing biometric data with visual cryptography and steganography; an improved secure communication scheme using adaptive parameter synchronization; malware detection using API function frequency with ensemble based classifier; privacy issues in single and multi hop wireless mesh network and scalable key transport protocol using Chinese remainder theorem.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 911\
Patil, V.T., Manjrekar, A.A.\
57224775035;54788196800;\
A Novel Approach for Monitoring SQL Anti-Forensic Attacks Using Pattern Matching for Digital Forensic Investigation\
(2013) Communications in Computer and Information Science, 377 CCIS, pp. 162-167. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84904661360&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-40576-1_16&partnerID=40&md5=2361e14099c92491f3072131f65e0fce\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-40576-1_16\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Science and Technology, Shivaji University, Kolhapur, India; \
Department of Technology, Shivaji University, Kolhapur, India\
ABSTRACT: Over the past few years the attacks on Software systems is increasing at an astonishing rate resulting in high revenue losses. Hence, Cyber/Digital forensics plays an important role by providing methods to acquire, asses, interpret, and use digital evidence to fetch conclusive details of cyber crime behavior. Recent trend in cyber crimes is the use of Anti-Forensic attacks to thwart the process of digital investigation by tampering the evidences. The said system focuses on monitoring the Anti-Forensic attacks in the process of Digital Forensic Investigation. The system first identifies the different Anti-forensic attacks (Deletion /Modification /Hiding /Addition of evidences) by using a pattern matching algorithm, Finally the system effectively generates the reports and suggestions in accordance with the attacks. This system will prove helpful to the digital forensic investigators as well as other Government organizations in collecting post crime evidences and trace the identities of the attackers. \'a9 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2013.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-Forensic attacks;  Digital Forensics;  Pattern Matching\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 912\
Gupta, D., Mehte, B.M.\
57211009322;56042150000;\
Forensics Analysis of Sandboxie Artifacts\
(2013) Communications in Computer and Information Science, 377 CCIS, pp. 341-352. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84904615496&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-40576-1_34&partnerID=40&md5=c50f1c3ee68a42d5bce5367d3e6d522f\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-40576-1_34\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Development and Research in Banking Technology, Reserve Bank of India, India\
ABSTRACT: SandBox is an isolated environment nowadays being used as an antiforensics tool by many (criminals) to perform malicious activity. The paper investigates the effectiveness of sandbox environment in widely used tool named as Sandboxie, and outline how to perform investigation when this tool is used to perform a criminal or illegal act. For the purpose of experimental investigation we have considered two test cases and several scenarios. In the first case we assumed that user simply used sandboxie and terminated it, while in second case we assumed the user also deleted the sandboxie contents after using it. In this investigation process, first common places where evidences are usually found in general scenarios are examined, and then other locations in local machine are examined using special forensics tools. Also the main/physical memory (RAM) is captured and examined for traces. Through these experiments we showed that no trails could be found in common places for any activity if a user deletes his sandboxie content. However, the complete isolation does not occur and some traces can be found into the main memory (RAM) as well as in unallocated clusterson the disks. This is a valuable evidence for digital investigator. \'a9 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2013.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Antiforensics;  Digital Evidences;  Digital Forensics;  Information Security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 913\
Gupta, D., Mehtre, B.M.\
57211009322;56042150000;\
Recent Trends in Collection of Software Forensics Artifacts: Issues and Challenges\
(2013) Communications in Computer and Information Science, 377 CCIS, pp. 303-312. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84904614541&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-40576-1_30&partnerID=40&md5=a30e44b6398b43bb6ab9b0e6500e7aad\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-40576-1_30\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute for Development and Research in Banking Technology, Reserve Bank of India, Masab Tank. Castle Hills Road No 1, Hyderabad, 500057, India\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics helps an investigator to find traces of any malicious activity of user, done by using a particular piece of software. In recent years, analysis of computer software products has been done for collection of forensics artifacts, using traditional digital forensic approach. But as the traditional forensics has now been established as a standard, more people are familiar with the forensic processes. They know where traces can be left behind and how to get rid of them so as to eliminate possible evidence. Thus anti forensic techniques are imposing as disruptive challenge for investigators. In this paper we discuss recent trends in the field of artifacts collection and highlight some challenges that have made finding and collecting forensics artifacts a very hard job. We examine whether it is possible for a forensics investigator to rely on old traditional approach or not. Furthermore in conclusion we suggest possible solutions and new areas where we can find evidences. \'a9 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2013.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyber Forensics;  Digital Evidence;  Information Security;  Recent Trends;  Software artifact Forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 914\
Almulla, S., Iraqi, Y., Jones, A.\
36473139200;6603845850;56025590600;\
A distributed snapshot framework for digital forensics evidence extraction and event reconstruction from cloud environment\
(2013) Proceedings of the International Conference on Cloud Computing Technology and Science, CloudCom, 1, art. no. 6753864, pp. 699-704. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84899723269&doi=10.1109%2fCloudCom.2013.114&partnerID=40&md5=47532e65ab54b136976e6854957fc185\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CloudCom.2013.114\
AFFILIATIONS: Electrical and Computer Engineering, Khalifa University of Science Technology and Research, United Arab Emirates\
ABSTRACT: In a heterogeneous and volatile environment such as the cloud, recording the underlying infrastructure state - snapshot-is an important paradigm for analysis, testing and verification of properties associated with distributed executions. In case of crime or e-discovery investigation, possible execution might require to generate digital forensics evidences. The aim of this research is to generate distributed snapshot and extract evidences in a forensically sound manner. The paper will cover literature review outcomes, preliminary findings, research methodology and work in progress. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud computing;  cloud forensics;  digital forensics;  Distributed snapshots\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 915\
Ohana, D.J., Shashidhar, N.\
55832480200;24491087900;\
Do private and portable web browsers leave incriminating evidence?: A forensic analysis of residual artifacts from private and portable web browsing sessions\
(2013) Eurasip Journal on Information Security, 2013, art. no. 6, . Cited 22 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84898890654&doi=10.1186%2f1687-417X-2013-6&partnerID=40&md5=2bb2ea4d1143634dee34c6ddbab81c35\
\
DOI: 10.1186/1687-417X-2013-6\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Sam Houston State University, Huntsville, TX 77340, United States\
ABSTRACT: The Internet is an essential tool for everyday tasks. Aside from common use, the option to browse the Internet privately is a desirable attribute. However, this can create a problem when private Internet sessions become hidden from computer forensic investigators in need of evidence. Our primary focus in this research is to discover residual artifacts from private and portable web browsing sessions. In addition, the artifacts must contain more than just file fragments and enough to establish an affirmative link between user and session. Certain aspects of this topic have triggered many questions, but there have never been enough authoritative answers to follow. As a result, we propose a new methodology for analyzing private and portable web browsing artifacts. Our research will serve to be a significant resource for law enforcement, computer forensic investigators, and the digital forensics research community .\'a9 2013 Ohana and Shashidhar; licensee Springer.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Internet forensics;  Portable browsing;  Portable web browsers;  Private browsing;  RAM analysi;  Web browser artifacts\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 916\
Al-Sadi, A., Yahya, M.B., Almulhem, A.\
46661784600;57053487900;6603379725;\
Identification of image fragments for file carving\
(2013) 2013 World Congress on Internet Security, WorldCIS 2013, art. no. 6751037, pp. 151-155. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84898459453&doi=10.1109%2fWorldCIS.2013.6751037&partnerID=40&md5=80af2ca6710d2f893a4c4b8def8e31b1\
\
DOI: 10.1109/WorldCIS.2013.6751037\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Engineering Department, King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals, Dhahran 31261, Saudi Arabia\
ABSTRACT: Recovering images intact is an important process in digital forensics, as they may represent primary evidences in crime cases such as child pornography. Due to filesyetems' fragmentation mechanisms, images may be split into several fragments on a physical storage. As such, recovering images fragments and reconstructing the original images embody challenges for file carving tools particularly when the filesystem metadata are not available. In this paper, we propose a method for image fragment identification using a machine learning approach. Our method exploits features in unknown images fragments, and applies various machine learning algorithms to reconstruct the original images by identifying to which particular image a fragment belongs. We provide the details of our methods as well as a validation of its effectiveness. \'a9 2013 Infonomics Society.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: digital forensics;  file carving;  fragments identification;  machine learning\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 917\
Zareen, M.S., Waqar, A., Aslam, B.\
56102318900;54916636000;24174424400;\
Digital forensics: Latest challenges and response\
(2013) Conference Proceedings - 2013 2nd National Conference on Information Assurance, NCIA 2013, art. no. 6725320, pp. 21-29. Cited 16 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84897741631&doi=10.1109%2fNCIA.2013.6725320&partnerID=40&md5=6d6b434dbff8389518f86ae41c5af434\
\
DOI: 10.1109/NCIA.2013.6725320\
AFFILIATIONS: National University of Sciences and Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan\
ABSTRACT: Twenty first century has witnessed an explosive growth in use of computers and networks in every facet of life. With this explosive growth, new advancements in the field of secure computing, network technologies and systems have also been witnessed at an unprecedented rate. These developments have made existing digital forensics tools and techniques ineffective. Moreover, easy access to science of digital forensics and associated techniques has lead to use of anti-forensics measures by malicious actors to cover their traces. The paper highlights the impact of latest trends, technological advancement and use of anti-forensics measures on digital forensics along with the response of digital forensics to them. Shortfalls in the said response have also been covered along with recommended measures to address them. Moreover, historical perspective and established procedures of digital forensics are also discussed. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics Measures;  Digital Forensics;  Digital Forensics Investigations;  Digital Forensics Techniques;  Digital Forensics Tools\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 918\
Mehrotra, T., Mehtre, B.M.\
56040860900;56042150000;\
Forensic analysis of Wickr application on android devices\
(2013) 2013 IEEE International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Computing Research, IEEE ICCIC 2013, art. no. 6724230, . Cited 11 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84894245969&doi=10.1109%2fICCIC.2013.6724230&partnerID=40&md5=61add0081d214a68f68538c7ce96044d\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICCIC.2013.6724230\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer and Information Sciences, Hyderabad Central University, Hyderabad, India; \
Center for Information Assurance and Management, Institute for Development and Research in Banking Technology (Established by Reserve Bank of India), Hyderabad, India\
ABSTRACT: As there are many applications that are supported by smartphones, so there is an increasing interest in finding artifacts (digital evidence) created by such applications. Wickr is a free application that allows users to send self-destructing files and messages. It came out as an iOS-only app but now it is launched in 'public-beta' for android devices. As claimed by the Wickr app founders, it leaves no traces behind even for forensic investigators. This research focuses on authenticating the claims above. Experiments consisting of various test cases on rooted and non-rooted android devices were performed to investigate whether the traces are left behind or not. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android forensics;  Anti-Forensics;  Artifacts;  Digital forensics;  Forensics Investigation;  Wickr\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 919\
Castiglione, A., Cattaneo, G., De Maio, G., De Santis, A.\
16027997000;7103222430;49661193400;6602419751;\
Automated production of predetermined digital evidence\
(2013) IEEE Access, 1, art. no. 6514969, pp. 216-231. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84892851834&doi=10.1109%2fACCESS.2013.2260817&partnerID=40&md5=e5246c51d2d9042e66125e6f7ba6a055\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2013.2260817\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, University of Salerno, Via Ponte don Melillo, Fisciano I-84084, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Digital evidence is increasingly used in juridical proceedings. In some recent legal cases, the verdict has been strongly influenced by the digital evidence proffered by the defense. Digital traces can be left on computers, phones, digital cameras, and also on remote machines belonging to ISPs, telephone providers, companies that provide services via Internet such as YouTube, Facebook, Gmail, and so on. This paper presents a methodology for the automated production of predetermined digital evidence, which can be leveraged to forge a digital alibi. It is based on the use of an automation, a program meant to simulate any common user activity. In addition to wanted traces, the automation may produce a number of unwanted traces, which may be disclosed upon a digital forensic analysis. These include data remanence of suspicious flules, as well as any kind of logs generated by the operating system modules and services. The proposed methodology describes a process to design, implement, and execute the automation on a target system, and to properly handle both wanted and unwanted evidence. Many experiments with different combinations of automation tools and operating systems are conducted. This paper presents an implementation of the methodology through VBScript on Windows 7. A forensic analysis on the target system is not sufflucient to reveal that the alibi is forged by automation. These considerations emphasize the difference between digital and traditional evidence. Digital evidence is always circumstantial, and therefore it should be considered relevant only if supported by stronger evidence collected through traditional investigation techniques. Thus, a Court verdict should not be based solely on digital evidence. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Antiforensics;  Automated alibi;  Counter-forensics;  Digital alibi;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Digital investigation;  False alibi;  False digital alibi\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 920\
Cho, G.-S.\
14627081400;\
A computer forensic method for detecting timestamp forgery in NTFS\
(2013) Computers and Security, 34, pp. 36-46. Cited 20 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84891873071&doi=10.1016%2fj.cose.2012.11.003&partnerID=40&md5=d19c34ba61d2b583ee52c122faa62aa5\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.cose.2012.11.003\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Information Warfare, Dongyang Univ., 1 Gyochon, Youngju, Kyoungbuk 750-711, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: In this paper, we present a computer forensic method for detecting timestamp forgeries in the Windows NTFS file system. It is difficult to know precisely that the timestamps have been changed by only examining the timestamps of the file itself. If we can find the past timestamps before any changes to the file are made, this can act as evidence of file time forgery. The log records operate on files and leave large amounts of information in the $LogFile that can be used to reconstruct operations on the files and also used as forensic evidence. Log record with 0x07/0x07 opcode in the data part of Redo/Undo attribute has timestamps which contain past-and-present timestamps. The past-and-present time-stamps can be decisive evidence to indicate timestamp forgery, as they contain when and how the timestamps were changed. We used file time change tools that can easily be found on Internet sites. The patterns of the timestamp change created by the tools are different compared to those of normal file operations. Seven file operations have ten timestamp change patterns in total by features of timestamp changes in the $STANDARD-INFORMATION attribute and the $FILE-NAME attribute. We made rule sets for detecting timestamp forgery based on using difference comparison between changes in timestamp patterns by the file time change tool and normal file operations. We apply the forensic rule sets for ".txt", ".docx" and ".pdf" file types, and we show the effectiveness and validity of the proposed method. The importance of this research lies in the fact that we can find the past time in $LogFile, which gives decisive evidence of timestamp forgery. This makes the timestamp active evidence as opposed to simply being passive evidence. \'a9 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: $LogFile;  Computer forensics;  NTFS;  Patterns of file time change;  Timestamp forgery\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 921\
Karie, N.M., Venter, H.S.\
55487290000;7005841055;\
Towards a framework for enhancing potential digital evidence presentation\
(2013) 2013 Information Security for South Africa - Proceedings of the ISSA 2013 Conference, art. no. 6641039, . Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84890837425&doi=10.1109%2fISSA.2013.6641039&partnerID=40&md5=cdfe3235ed1c284af427ba9b301d3771\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISSA.2013.6641039\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, University of Pretoria, Private Bag X20, Hatfield 0028, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: In the case of digital forensic investigations, the potential digital evidence captured, the analysis, interpretation, and attribution must ultimately be presented in the form of expert reports, depositions, and testimony in any legal proceedings. If the presentation and interpretation of the potential digital evidence is conducted correctly, it is much easier and useful in apprehending the attacker and stands a much greater chance of being admissible in the event of a prosecution. Wrongly presented and interpreted potential digital evidence data might create loopholes for perpetrators to exploit, thus, making it hard to convict and prosecute them. \'a9 2013 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: admissibility of evidence;  digital forensics;  evidence presentation;  evidence validation;  evidence weight;  law enforcement agencies;  legal proceedings\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 922\
Lees, C.\
55930571900;\
Determining removal of forensic artefacts using the USN change journal\
(2013) Digital Investigation, 10 (4), pp. 300-310. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84889102585&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2013.10.002&partnerID=40&md5=3b634c906b7beadec7c6e2a02203fcf8\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2013.10.002\
AFFILIATIONS: Greater Manchester Police, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Programs which remove forensic artefacts can be a hindrance to forensics investigators and proving their use can often be difficult as can the use of "private browsing" modes available in many Internet browsers. In this paper we examine the ways in which the Update Sequence Number (USN) Journal file can be used to show signs that such software or modes of operation have been used. The USN journal provides, when NTFS journalling is enabled, a list of transactions relating to files on the volume. This includes a list of all file creations, renames and deletions. By examining this journal after the use of common programs designed to remove artefacts or prevent artefacts from being created, we can see that there are patterns within the journals which can be used to detect such activity. Specifically references to the creation of or access to prefetch files for the Internet Explorer browser and large numbers deletions are consistent with InPrivate browsing being used. The use of the CCleaner software also creates distinctive patterns within the USN journal. \'a9 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  CCleaner;  Digital forensics;  InPrivate;  Investigation;  NTFS;  USN journal\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 923\
Read, H., Xynos, K., Sutherland, I., Davies, G., Houiellebecq, T., Roarson, F., Blyth, A.\
15756198000;26649673700;7102212595;57202273539;55926841800;55927062000;56259809200;\
Manipulation of hard drive firmware to conceal entire partitions\
(2013) Digital Investigation, 10 (4), pp. 281-286. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84889092925&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2013.10.001&partnerID=40&md5=ef21066c04752c328c533e8f8c7dbfc7\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2013.10.001\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Computing, Engineering and Science, University of South Wales, Pontypridd, CF37 1DL, United Kingdom; \
Noroff University College, Kristiansand, Norway; \
Edith Cowan University, Perth, Australia; \
Centre for Forensic Computing, Cranfield University, United Kingdom; \
Longwood Centre for Cyber Security, Longwood University, VA, United States\
ABSTRACT: Tools created by the computer hacking community to circumvent security protection on hard drives can have unintentional consequences for digital forensics. Tools originally developed to circumvent Microsoft's Xbox 360 hard drive protection can be used, independently of the Xbox 360 system, to change the reported size/model of a hard drive enabling criminals to hide data from digital forensic software and hardware. The availability of such concealment methods raises the risk of evidence being overlooked, particularly as triage and on-scene inspections of digital media become more common. This paper presents two case studies demonstrating the process using Western Digital and Fujitsu branded drives. It outlines the difficulties faced by standard computer forensic analysis techniques in revealing the true nature of the drive and finally provides suggestions for extra checks to reveal this type of concealment. \'a9 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: ACPO;  Data hiding;  Firmware;  Free space;  Hard drive;  Manipulation;  Xbox 360\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 924\
Shanableh, T.\
16317066900;\
Detection of frame deletion for digital video forensics\
(2013) Digital Investigation, 10 (4), pp. 350-360. Cited 52 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84889078669&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2013.10.004&partnerID=40&md5=ee1d059f8acbac7dc7b07ec7881d12fd\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2013.10.004\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, College of Engineering, American University of Sharjah, United Arab Emirates\
ABSTRACT: The abundance of digital video forms a potential piece of evidence in courtrooms. Augmenting subjective assessment of digital video evidence by an automated objective assessment helps increase the accuracy of deciding whether or not to admit the digital video as legal evidence. This paper examines the authenticity of digital video evidence and in particular it proposes a machine learning approach to detecting frame deletion. A number of discriminative features are extracted from the video bit stream and its reconstructed images. The features are based on prediction residuals, percentage of intra-coded macroblocks, quantization scales and reconstruction quality. The importance of these features is verified by using stepwise regression. Consequently, the dimensionality of the feature vectors is reduced using spectral regression where it is shown that the projected features of unaltered and forged videos are nearly separable. Machine learning techniques are used to report the true positive and false negative rates of the proposed solution. It is shown that the proposed solution works for detecting forged videos regardless of the number of deleted frames, as long as it is not a multiple of the length of a group of pictures. It is also shown that the proposed solution is applicable for the two modes of video compression, variable and constant bitrate coding. \'a9 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Frame deletion;  Video compression\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 925\
Birajdar, G.K., Mankar, V.H.\
55362261700;24829869200;\
Digital image forgery detection using passive techniques: A survey\
(2013) Digital Investigation, 10 (3), pp. 226-245. Cited 274 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84884593770&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2013.04.007&partnerID=40&md5=f9c7a97e39b997a91982a18ca9e425cd\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2013.04.007\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electronics and Communication, Priyadarshini Institute of Engineering and Technology, Nagpur 440019, Maharashtra, India; \
Department of Electronics and Telecommunication, Government Polytechnic, Nagpur 440001, Maharashtra, India\
ABSTRACT: Today manipulation of digital images has become easy due to powerful computers, advanced photo-editing software packages and high resolution capturing devices. Verifying the integrity of images and detecting traces of tampering without requiring extra prior knowledge of the image content or any embedded watermarks is an important research field. An attempt is made to survey the recent developments in the field of digital image forgery detection and complete bibliography is presented on blind methods for forgery detection. Blind or passive methods do not need any explicit priori information about the image. First, various image forgery detection techniques are classified and then its generalized structure is developed. An overview of passive image authentication is presented and the existing blind forgery detection techniques are reviewed. The present status of image forgery detection technique is discussed along with a recommendation for future research. \'a9 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Image authentication;  Image forensic;  Image manipulation detection;  Image tampering detection;  Passive/blind image forgery detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 926\
Hong, I., Yu, H., Lee, S., Lee, K.\
55586228100;55586895700;36063408400;55585886400;\
A new triage model conforming to the needs of selective search and seizure of electronic evidence\
(2013) Digital Investigation, 10 (2), pp. 175-192. Cited 13 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84883555836&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2013.01.003&partnerID=40&md5=c18fdfc1afef053c32c6fa778b376b22\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2013.01.003\
AFFILIATIONS: Center for Information Security Technologies (CIST), Korea University, Anam-Dong, Seongbuk-Gu, Seoul 136-713, South Korea; \
Supreme Prosecutors' Office, Seocho-dong, Seocho-gu, Seoul, South Korea; \
Korea Police Investigation Academy, Hwykung-dong, Dongdaemun-gu, Seoul, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Recently, digital evidence has been playing an increasingly important role in criminal cases. The seizure of Hard Disk Drives (HDDs) and creation of images of entire disk drives have become a best practice by law enforcement agencies. In most criminal cases, however, the incriminatory information found on an HDD is only a small portion of the entire HDD and the remaining information is not relevant to the case. For this reason, demands for the regulation of excessive search and seizure of defendants' innocuous information have been increasing and gaining strength. Some courts have even ruled out inadmissible digital evidence gathered from sites where the scope of a warrant has been exceeded, considering it to be a violation of due process. In order to protect the privacy of suspects, a standard should be made restricting excessive search and seizure. There are, however, many difficulties in selectively identifying and collecting digital evidence at a crime scene, and it is not realistic to expect law enforcement officers to search and collect completely only case-relevant evidence. Too much restriction can cause severe problems in investigations and may result in law enforcement authorities missing crucial evidence. Therefore, a model needs to be established that can assess and regulate excessive search and seizure of digital evidence in accordance with a reasonable standard that considers practical limitations. Consequently, we propose a new approach that balances two conflicting values: human rights protection versus the achievement of effective investigations. In this new approach, a triage model is derived from an assessment of the limiting factors of on-site search and seizure. For the assessment, a survey that provides information about the level of law enforcement, such as the available labor, equipment supply, technical limitations, and time constraints, was conducted using current field officers. A triage model that can meet the legal system's demand for privacy protection and which supports decision making by field officers that can have legal effects was implemented. Since the demands of each legal system and situation of law enforcement vary from country to country, the triage model should be established individually for each legal system. Along with experiment of our proposed approach, this paper presents a new triage model that is designed to meet the recent requirements of the Korean legal system for privacy protection from, specifically, a Korean perspective. \'a9 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Electronic evidence;  Privacy;  Search and seizure;  Triage\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 927\
Abdallah, E.E., Abdallah, A.E., Bsoul, M., Otoom, A.F., Al-Daoud, E.\
36715844300;35605790400;32367449500;14021972800;23090148500;\
Simplified features for email authorship identification\
(2013) International Journal of Security and Networks, 8 (2), pp. 72-81. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84883009671&doi=10.1504%2fIJSN.2013.055941&partnerID=40&md5=3dd0da492368aeba0051643c85854c22\
\
DOI: 10.1504/IJSN.2013.055941\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Prince Al-Hussein Bin Abdallah II For Information Technology, Hashemite University, Zarqa, Jordan; \
Faculty of Science and Information Technology, Zarka University, Zarka, Jordan\
ABSTRACT: We present an investigation analysis approach for mining anonymous email content. The core idea behind our approach is concentrated on collecting various effective features from previous emails for all the possible suspects. The extracted features are then used with several machine learning algorithms to extract a unique writing style for each suspect. A sophisticated comparison between the investigated anonymous email and the suspects writing styles is employed to extract evidence of the possible email sender. Extensive experimental results on a real data sets show the improved performance of the proposed method with very limited number of features.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Authorship analysis;  Cyber crimes;  Digital forensics;  Email forensics;  Email misuse;  Stylometric features\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 928\
Garfinkel, S.L.\
36867821700;\
Digital media triage with bulk data analysis and bulk-extractor\
(2013) Computers and Security, 32, pp. 56-72. Cited 68 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84876535366&doi=10.1016%2fj.cose.2012.09.011&partnerID=40&md5=dc91dc62dbfe49b8d9af91f4e6dddfcf\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.cose.2012.09.011\
AFFILIATIONS: Naval Postgraduate School, 900N Glebe, Arlington, VA 22207, United States\
ABSTRACT: Bulk data analysis eschews file extraction and analysis, common in forensic practice today, and instead processes data in "bulk," recognizing and extracting salient details ("features") of use in the typical digital forensics investigation. This article presents the requirements, design and implementation of the bulk-extractor, a high-performance carving and feature extraction tool that uses bulk data analysis to allow the triage and rapid exploitation of digital media. Bulk data analysis and the bulk-extractor are designed to complement traditional forensic approaches, not replace them. The approach and implementation offer several important advances over today's forensic tools, including optimistic decompression of compressed data, context-based stop-lists, and the use of a "forensic path" to document both the physical location and forensic transformations necessary to reconstruct extracted evidence. The bulk-extractor is a stream-based forensic tool, meaning that it scans the entire media from beginning to end without seeking the disk head, and is fully parallelized, allowing it to work at the maximum I/O capabilities of the underlying hardware (provided that the system has sufficient CPU resources). Although bulk-extractor was developed as a research prototype, it has proved useful in actual police investigations, two of which this article recounts. \'a9 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Bulk data analysis;  Bulk-extractor;  Digital forensics;  EnCase;  Forensic path;  Margin;  Optimistic decompression;  Parallelized forensic analysis;  Stream-based forensics;  Windows hibernation files\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 929\
Zhang, X., Hu, L., Xie, Z., Song, S., Meng, X., Zhao, K.\
54396527000;34770075600;55647850100;55647915000;57199654906;18435554700;\
The design and implementation of an extensible format formemory dumps\
(2013) Journal of Theoretical and Applied Information Technology, 48 (2), pp. 768-774. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84876016729&partnerID=40&md5=a3b83b560a86db73a1246d104fc86539\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science and Technology, Jilin University, Changchun 130012, China\
ABSTRACT: The preservation, collection, analysis and interpretation of the evidence of computer crime following the legal procedures has become a major problem on Computer Forensics, while current available memory dumps formats and technology have drawbacks. In this paper, we present a format of physical memory dumps applied to forensics. This new format of memory dumps has provided three major advantages. First, it is more flexible, based on the characteristics of real time changes in physical memory, our design supports an update of physical memory compression at any time and reduce its process time significantly. Secondly, it has a good extensibility, supporting the storage of metadata and image at the same time, which facilitates the management and control of memory image. Thirdly, using hash and digital signature mechanism protect the integrity and reliability storage of the evidence data. This paper has solved many practical problems in the storage and protection with existing physical memory image format. \'a9 2005 - 2013 JATIT & LLS. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensic;  Digital signature;  Hash;  Memory dump;  Metadata\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 930\
Jin, X., Yang, G.\
15519158300;9634947300;\
Model-checking of merging events for digital forensics\
(2012) International Journal of Digital Content Technology and its Applications, 6 (22), pp. 785-793. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84871353407&doi=10.4156%2fjdcta.vol6.issue22.89&partnerID=40&md5=2531272b0c7f3b8d8a66046c5bf360ef\
\
DOI: 10.4156/jdcta.vol6.issue22.89\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Computer, Nanjing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210023, China; \
Institute of Computer Technology, Nanjing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210023, China\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics investigator faces the challenge of reliability of forensic conclusions. To improve this situation, this paper proposes a formal integration model based on Hierarchical Timed Automata (HTA) for event reconstruction of the system under investigation. Firstly, we describe the details of modeling events and merging events in a complex system using HTA. We then discuss the compatibility and illegal actions of merging events. Finally, we use Multiset Labeled Transition Systems to represent the interface actions of HTA to perform evidence detection during an incident. This hierarchical and unified framework establishes the foundation for formal analysis of real-time properties of the system.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Hierarchical timed automata;  Merging events;  Reconstruction\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 931\
Teng, S.-Y., Lin, Y.-L.\
55515910200;56889877400;\
Skype chat data forgery detection\
(2012) Communications in Computer and Information Science, 350 CCIS, pp. 108-114. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84870832792&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-35594-3_15&partnerID=40&md5=4d6c4bd1e1efd4d2743650a02ad3a45e\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-35594-3_15\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Forensic Science, Central Police University, Taoyuan County 333, Taiwan; \
Ministry of Justice, Investigation Bureau (MJIB), Taipei 231, Taiwan\
ABSTRACT: Internet-based communication technologies are very widespread in recent years. Unfortunately, while the number of technologies such as Skype, Windows Live messenger, Yahoo messenger, QQ implicated in crime activities is relevant and growing, the capability to perform forgery detection of such technologies is limited. Skype is a kind of deployed application by using SQLite. Using SQLite database to store voice data, instant messaging, audio conferencing, and file transfer. Nowadays several GUI editors for SQLite database are developed. The main goal of these editor tools is to allow non-technical users to create, modify and edit SQLite database files. This paper presents an analysis of SQLite database features exploited in order to forge data and a method to detect forgery data using these exploits. \'a9 2012 Springer-Verlag.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Digital evidence;  forgery;  Instant messaging;  Skype\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 932\
Flores, D.A., Angelopoulou, O., Self, R.J.\
55440895500;55420436500;55363531200;\
Combining digital forensic practices and database analysis as an anti-money laundering strategy for financial institutions\
(2012) Proceedings - 3rd International Conference on Emerging Intelligent Data and Web Technologies, EIDWT 2012, art. no. 6354745, pp. 218-224. Cited 14 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84870730350&doi=10.1109%2fEIDWT.2012.22&partnerID=40&md5=f13f62808804d6f11f7e975175313ae2\
\
DOI: 10.1109/EIDWT.2012.22\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Derby, Faculty of Business Computing and Law, Kedleston Road, Derby, DE22 1GB, United Kingdom; \
National Polytechnic School, Department of Informatics and Computer Sciences (DICC), Quito, Ecuador\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics is the science that identify, preserve, collect, validate, analyse, interpret, and report digital evidence that may be relevant in court to solve criminal investigations. Conversely, money launderingis a form of crime that is compromising the internal policies in financial institutions, which is investigated by analysing large amount of transactional financial data. However, the majority of financial institutions have adopted ineffective detection procedures and extensive reporting tasks to detect money laundering without incorporating digital forensic practices to handle evidence. Thus, in this article, we propose an anti-money laundering model by combining digital forensics practices along with database tools and database analysis methodologies. As consequence, admissible Suspicious Activity Reports (SARs) can be generated, based on evidence obtained from forensically analysing database financial logs in compliance with Know-Your-Customer policies for money laundering detection. \'a9 2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: BI;  business intelligence;  database log;  digital forensics;  ETL;  extractor;  FTK;  MySQL;  SAP;  store procedure\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 933\
Li, C.-T., Satta, R.\
26648782200;50861763400;\
Empirical investigation into the correlation between vignetting effect and the quality of sensor pattern noise\
(2012) IET Computer Vision, 6 (6), pp. 560-566. Cited 15 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84879721477&doi=10.1049%2fiet-cvi.2012.0044&partnerID=40&md5=1dd6c4de6662680d5ea7cffc422da241\
\
DOI: 10.1049/iet-cvi.2012.0044\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, United Kingdom; \
Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, University of Cagliari, Cagliari 09123, Italy\
ABSTRACT: The sensor pattern noise (SPN) is a unique attribute of the content of images that can facilitate identification of source digital imaging devices. Owing to its potential in forensic applications, it has drawn much attention in the digital forensic community. Although much work has been done on the applications of the SPN, investigations into its characteristics have been largely overlooked in the literature. In this study, the authors aim to fill this gap by providing insight into the characteristic dependency of the SPN quality on its location in images. They have observed that the SPN components at the image periphery are not reliable for the task of source camera identification, and tend to cause higher false-positive rates. Empirical evidence is presented in this work. The authors suspect that this location-dependent SPN quality degradation has strong connection with the so-called 'vignetting effect', as both exhibit the same type of location dependency. The authors recommend that when image blocks are to be used for forensic investigations, they should be taken from the image centre before SPN extraction is performed in order to reduce false-positive rate. \'a9 The Institution of Engineering and Technology 2012.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 934\
Olajide, F., Savage, N., Akmayeva, G., Trafford, R.\
37261854400;57196637831;26421909000;55644510600;\
Forensic memory evidence of windows application\
(2012) 2012 International Conference for Internet Technology and Secured Transactions, ICITST 2012, art. no. 6470910, pp. 715-718. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84876191959&partnerID=40&md5=379fc4760420b619da613f0ee476a1d8\
\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Engineering, University of Portsmouth, United Kingdom; \
Infonomic Society, Ireland; \
Business School, University of Portsmouth, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: In modern digital investigations, forensic sensitive information can be gathered from the physical memory of computer systems. Digital forensic community feels the urge towards accurate data collection, preservation, examination, validation, data analysis and presentation. This investigative process has become an essential part of digital investigation. The extraction of forensically relevant evidence from the physical memory can reveals users' actions. This research will report the amount of evidence that can be extracted and how the evidence changes with the length of time that the system is switched on and the application is still opened. In this experiment, the quantitative assessment of user input on the most commonly used applications will be presented. \'a9 2012 Infonomics Society.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Application;  memory;  time;  Windows\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 935\
Olajide, F., Trafford, R., Akmayeva, G., Shoniregun, C.\
37261854400;55644510600;26421909000;55958517000;\
Time aspect of information stored on Windows application memory\
(2012) World Congress on Sustainable Technologies, WCST 2012, art. no. 6482926, pp. 99-103. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84875945548&partnerID=40&md5=3fa23589bb9228afd837ec9d4496ec19\
\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Engineering, University of Portsmouth, United Kingdom; \
Business School, University of Portsmouth, United Kingdom; \
Tnfonomic Society, Ireland; \
Tnfonomic Society, Essex, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: In today digital investigation, forensic time aspect of information has become an important part of digital forensic research. Vital user input information can be gathered from the physical memory of computer systems. Digital forensic community demand accurate data collection, preservation, examination, validation, data analysis and presentation. This process has become the most important aspect of digital investigation. The extraction of forensically relevant evidence from the physical memory can reveals users' actions. This research will report the evidence that can be extracted and how that evidence changes with the length of time that the system is switched on when the application is still opened. In this experiment, the qualitative assessment of user input on some commonly used applications will be discussed. \'a9 2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Application;  Memory;  Time;  Windows\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 936\
Chu, X., Stamm, M.C., Liu, K.J.R.\
55413975200;34870520200;7404200118;\
Forensic identification of compressively sensed signals\
(2012) Proceedings - International Conference on Image Processing, ICIP, art. no. 6466844, pp. 257-260. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84875836798&doi=10.1109%2fICIP.2012.6466844&partnerID=40&md5=d5161f43c85e84e66dc70ca89191899c\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICIP.2012.6466844\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Maryland, College Park, MD, United States\
ABSTRACT: Identifying a signal's origin and how it was acquired is an important problem for digital forensics. Recently, compressive sensing has achieved substantial attention due to its ability to accurately acquire sparse signals at rates below the Nyquist rate. The increased popularity of this signal acquisition technique gives rise to a new forensic problem: is it possible to distinguish signals that have been compressively sensed from traditionally sampled ones? In our previous work, we addressed this problem of differentiating between traditionally acquired and compressively sensed images. In this paper, we examine the problem of distinguishing traditionally sampled signals from compressively sensed ones for a broader class of signals. We categorize those compressive sensing applicable signals into two cases: sparse signals with noise and nearly sparse signals. For each category, we discuss the traces left in a signal by compressive sensing and propose a corresponding detection scheme. Experimental results show that both of our proposed detection schemes can be effectively used to distinguish compressively sensed signals from traditionally sensed signals. \'a9 2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: (Nearly) Sparse Signals;  Compressive Sensing;  Identification Forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 937\
Schrittwieser, S., Kieseberg, P., Weippl, E.\
36675926500;37761500500;8925433900;\
Digital forensics for enterprise rights management systems\
(2012) ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, pp. 111-120. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84873365559&doi=10.1145%2f2428736.2428756&partnerID=40&md5=07485939d94cf53458f9c66f76059c5d\
\
DOI: 10.1145/2428736.2428756\
AFFILIATIONS: Vienna University of Technology, Vienna, Austria; \
SBA Research, Vienna, Austria\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics is the application of techniques to recover, reconstruct and analyze data from a computer or a similar system in order to gather digital evidence (e.g. on a suspicious employee or for law enforcement). Guidelines and standards for forensic investigations exist (e.g. NIST SP800-86), but do not cover Enterprise Rights Management (ERM), where data is usually encrypted and therefore inaccessible without knowing the cryptographic key. This paper explores forensic techniques for ERM systems and develops application specific guidelines for forensic investigations targeting Microsoft Active Directory Rights Management Services (RMS) and Adobe LiveCycle Rights Management. Moreover, we illustrate the important role of database forensics for investigations in ERM systems and finally show that with Microsoft's ERM solution no secure, centrally-managed revocation of specific documents in order to prevent digital forensics is feasible. \'a9 2012 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: databases;  digital forensics;  enterprise rights management;  revocation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 938\
Xu, J., Su, Y., You, X.\
35769988700;55797981700;55552605700;\
Detection of video transcoding for digital forensics\
(2012) ICALIP 2012 - 2012 International Conference on Audio, Language and Image Processing, Proceedings, art. no. 6376604, pp. 160-164. Cited 13 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84872124154&doi=10.1109%2fICALIP.2012.6376604&partnerID=40&md5=8cca525e4192b0ead791c415a6516207\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICALIP.2012.6376604\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electronic Information Engineering, Tianjin University, Tianjin, China\
ABSTRACT: With the advent of low-cost multimedia acquisition device and sophisticated video editing techniques, it is becoming increasingly easier to tamper with digital video. In this paper, a novel approach is proposed to detection of double MPEG compression involving two video compression standards, which often occurs in video transcoding process. By analyzing the variation of DCT coefficients in depth, new periodic artifacts are found in the frequency spectrum of reconstructed nonzero DCT coefficient histogram of individual mode, and a novel detection approach is proposed with curve fitting tools. Combined with the SVM, goodness-of-fit statistics features are utilized to discriminate forged videos from original videos, and a series of experimental results demonstrate the validity and effectiveness of the proposed approach. \'a9 2012 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 939\
Reina, A., Fattori, A., Pagani, F., Cavallaro, L., Bruschi, D.\
55320175800;36189853300;55550619200;56228032600;6601999653;\
When hardware meets software: A bulletproof solution to forensic memory acquisition\
(2012) ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, pp. 79-88. Cited 31 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84872102052&doi=10.1145%2f2420950.2420962&partnerID=40&md5=44eb74e5a23e873a01fbc028ab54522b\
\
DOI: 10.1145/2420950.2420962\
AFFILIATIONS: Dipartimento di Informatica, Universit\'e0 Degli Studi di Milano, Italy; \
Information Security Group, Royal Holloway, University of London, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: The acquisition of volatile memory of running systems has become a prominent and essential procedure in digital forensic analysis and incident responses. In fact, unencrypted passwords, cryptographic material, text fragments and latest-generation malware may easily be protected as encrypted blobs on persistent storage, while living seamlessly in the volatile memory of a running system. Likewise, systems' run-time information, such as open network connections, open files and running processes, are by definition live entities that can only be observed by examining the volatile memory of a running system. In this context, tampering of volatile data while an acquisition is in progress or during transfer to an external trusted entity is an ongoing issue as it may irremediably invalidate the collected evidence. To overcome such issues, we present SMMDumper, a novel technique to perform atomic acquisitions of volatile memory of running systems. SMMDumper is implemented as an x86 firmware, which leverages the System Management Mode of Intel CPUs to create a complete and reliable snapshot of the state of the system that, with a minimal hardware support, is resilient to malware attacks. To the best of our knowledge, SMMDumper is the first technique that is able to atomically acquire the whole volatile memory, overcoming the SMMimposed 4GB barrier while providing integrity guarantees and running on commodity systems. Experimental results show that the time SMMDumper requires to acquire and transfer 6GB of physical memory of a running system is reasonable to allow for a real-world adoption in digital forensic analyses and incident responses. Copyright 2012 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forensic;  Live memory acquisition;  System management mode\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 940\
Zhu, S., Cao, X., Zhao, H.\
50862121700;8920951000;57221191232;\
Photographic composite detection using circles\
(2012) Frontiers of Computer Science in China, 6 (6), pp. 741-755. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84870780372&doi=10.1007%2fs11704-012-1248-2&partnerID=40&md5=5639e8f35ed8fd5650008ea1c55d06de\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s11704-012-1248-2\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science and Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin, 300072, China\
ABSTRACT: In this work, we propose several new methods for detecting photographic composites using circles. In particular, we focus on three kinds of scenes: (1) two coplanar circles with the same radius; (2) a single circle with its discriminable center; (3) a single circle with geometric constraints for camera calibration. For two circles' situation, we first estimate the focal length based on the equality of the sizes of two coplanar circles, and then estimate the normal vector of the world circle plane. Inconsistencies in the angles among the normal vectors (Each circle determines a normal vector) are used as evidence of tampering. On the other hand, for the single circle case, we warp the circle to make metric measurement. To demonstrate the effectiveness of the approach, we present results for synthetic and visually plausible composite images. \'a9 2012 Higher Education Press and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: a single circle;  digital forensics;  geometric constraints;  two circles\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 941\
Jordaan, J.\
36647560000;\
A sample of digital forensic quality assurance in the South African criminal justice system\
(2012) 2012 Information Security for South Africa - Proceedings of the ISSA 2012 Conference, art. no. 6320431, . Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84869213974&doi=10.1109%2fISSA.2012.6320431&partnerID=40&md5=abd6d9e418cf54fc87ea361b6aa44d78\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISSA.2012.6320431\
AFFILIATIONS: Special Investigating Unit, Cyber Forensic Laboratory, East London, South Africa; \
Security and Networks Research Group, Department of Computer Science, Rhodes University, Grahamstown, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: Criminal investigations and the resulting criminal prosecutions are dependent on quality evidence to ensure convictions. With the increasing number of digital devices in our society, a significant amount of evidence is digital, and the discipline of digital forensics, as a forensic science, should ensure the validity of this digital evidence in court. As a forensic science, quality assurance is crucial in the practice of digital forensics, to assure the court that the evidence can be trusted. The research explored the current state of digital forensic quality assurance in the criminal justice system in South Africa to determine what quality assurance practices were used, to identify any problems, as well as possible causes of any shortcomings. The research identified significant deficiencies with regard to quality assurance in digital forensics, and identified areas that potentially could impact negatively in the court environment if contested. In summary, the general state of quality assurance practice in digital forensics was poor. Reasons identified for this included a lack of training in digital forensic science fundamentals, lack of training in quality assurance in digital forensics, high case loads, and poor supervision. \'a9 2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: digital forensics;  evidence;  forensic science;  quality assurance\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 942 **SELECTED** SID: 50\
Rekhis, S., Boudriga, N.\
8546749800;6701876349;\
A Hierarchical Visibility theory for formal digital investigation of anti-forensic attacks\
(2012) Computers and Security, 31 (8), pp. 967-982. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84870295476&doi=10.1016%2fj.cose.2012.06.009&partnerID=40&md5=33ffac0c76deea1d5c64f1be51473c76\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.cose.2012.06.009\
AFFILIATIONS: Communication Networks and Security Research Lab., University of Carthage, Tunisia\
ABSTRACT: Among the leading topics of research in digital forensic investigation is the development of theoretical and scientifically proven techniques of incident analysis. However, two main problems, which remain unsolved in the literature, could lead the use of formal approaches of attack scenarios reconstruction and incident analysis to be inconclusive. The former is related to the absence of techniques to model and characterize anti-forensic attacks, and cope with the reconstruction of attack scenarios based on evidences compromised by these attacks. The latter is related to the lack of theoretical techniques usable during the preparation of systems to forensic analysis (i.e., the first phase of a forensic process that precedes the occurrence of an incident and the collection of evidences). These techniques are expected to determine the optimal set of security solutions to deploy so that the evidences to be generated further to a security incident would be sufficient to prove a wide range of anti-forensic attacks. In this paper we propose a formal approach, based on a novel theory of Hierarchical Visibility, allowing to forensically investigate security incidents that are conducted over complex systems and integrate anti-forensic attacks. We develop a formal logic-based model useful for the representation of complex systems and scenarios of attacks under different levels of abstractions, and the description of the deployed security solutions together with the evidences they generated. The theory of Hierarchical Visibility that we provide in this paper allows reasoning on anti-forensic attacks over complex systems, characterize situations under which they are provable, and prove their occurrence starting from incomplete evidences. An extension of the forensic process showing the use of Hierarchical Visibility theory to increase the number of provable anti-forensic attacks, is described. We illustrate the proposal using a case study related to the investigation of a denial of service attack over an SSH service. \'a9 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence modelling;  Digital forensic investigation;  Formal methods;  Hierarchical Visibility;  Provable anti-forensics attacks\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 943\
Castiglione, A., Cattaneo, G., De Maio, G., De Santis, A., Costabile, G., Epifani, M.\
16027997000;7103222430;49661193400;6602419751;55856596600;55856611400;\
The forensic analysis of a false digital alibi\
(2012) Proceedings - 6th International Conference on Innovative Mobile and Internet Services in Ubiquitous Computing, IMIS 2012, art. no. 6296841, pp. 114-121. Cited 13 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84884211525&doi=10.1109%2fIMIS.2012.127&partnerID=40&md5=93a9e24709a706b7f3456a190377afdd\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IMIS.2012.127\
AFFILIATIONS: Dipartimento di Informatica, Universit\'e0 degli Studi di Salerno, I-84084 Fisciano (SA), Italy; \
International Information Systems Forensics Association, IISFA Italian Chapter, Via Tibullo 11, I-00193 Roma, Italy\
ABSTRACT: In recent years the relevance of digital evidence in Courts disputes is growing up and many cases have been solved thanks to digital traces that addressed investigations on the right way. Actually in some cases digital evidence represented the only proof of the innocence of the accused. In such a case this information constitutes a digital alibi. It usually consists of a set of local and Internet activities performed through a digital device. It has been recently shown how it is possible to setup a common PC in order to produce digital evidence in an automatic and systematic manner. Such traces are indistinguishable upon a forensic post-mortem analysis from those left by human activity, thus being exploitable to forge a digital alibi. In this paper we verify the undetectability of a false digital alibi by setting up a challenge. An alibi maker team set up a script which simulated some human activities as well as a procedure to remove all the traces of the automation including itself. The verification team received the script and executed it on its own PCs. The verification team could perform not only a usual post-mortem analysis but also a deeper forensic analysis. Indeed, they knew all the details of the script and the original state of the PC before running it. The verification confirmed that a well-constructed false digital alibi is indistinguishable from an alibi based on human activities. \'a9 2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-Forensics;  Automated Alibi;  Counter-Forensics;  Digital Alibi;  Digital Evidence;  Digital Forensics;  Digital Investigation;  False Alibi;  False Digital Alibi\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 944\
Castiglione, A., De Santis, A., Fiore, U., Palmieri, F.\
16027997000;6602419751;8895749600;7103111550;\
Device tracking in private networks via NAPT log analysis\
(2012) Proceedings - 6th International Conference on Innovative Mobile and Internet Services in Ubiquitous Computing, IMIS 2012, art. no. 6296923, pp. 603-608. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84867731060&doi=10.1109%2fIMIS.2012.125&partnerID=40&md5=7a55418d2616f657beaa1be4acd3c951\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IMIS.2012.125\
AFFILIATIONS: Dipartimento di Informatica, Universit\'e0 di Salerno, I-84084 Fisciano (SA), Italy; \
C. S. I., Universit\'e0 di Napoli Federico II, I-80126 Napoli, Italy; \
Dipartimento di Ingegneria Dell Informazione, Seconda Universit\'e0 di Napoli, I-81031 Aversa (CE), Italy\
ABSTRACT: The source IP address where an offending activity had originated is of limited value because it does not specify a physical location, but an endpoint in a network for the sole purpose of routing. In addition, people and their devices move across the network, changing IP address as a consequence. It is useful to have some clues about where a device was at the time the offending action was performed. However, it would be desirable to correlate different pieces of evidence to discover other information, such as IP addresses used by the same device. Devices repeatedly accessing a private network, at different times, can be profiled by analyzing and correlating Network and Port Address Translation (NAPT) logs, in order to recognize recurring activity patterns. By mapping sequences of NAPT translations into multi-dimensional curves and computing a similarity measure on these, it is possible to group multiple different curves into common sets or profiles, that can be ascribed to individual users/machines. In this way, it is possible to recognize some of the users from their traffic peculiarities (browsing habits, mail access, network traffic generated by specific applications, etc.) without considering the exposed IP addresses. Experiments were performed on NAPT logs gathered in a campus network, with DHCP data providing control values for validation. \'a9 2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Device Tracking;  Digital Forensics;  IP Networks;  Log Analysis;  Network Address Translation;  Network Forensics;  Network Investigation;  Similarity Matching\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 945 **SELECTED** SID: 51\
Stamm, M.C., Lin, W.S., Liu, K.J.R.\
34870520200;56997848600;7404200118;\
Forensics vs. anti-forensics: A decision and game theoretic framework\
(2012) ICASSP, IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing - Proceedings, art. no. 6288237, pp. 1749-1752. Cited 42 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84864034865&doi=10.1109%2fICASSP.2012.6288237&partnerID=40&md5=3fd2b3249ceeac96c3bf11eca67152c9\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICASSP.2012.6288237\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Maryland, College Park, MD, United States\
ABSTRACT: In order to combat the spread of digital forgeries, researchers have developed a variety of forensic techniques to verify the authenticity of digital multimedia files. Though many of these techniques can reliably detect traditional forgeries, recent research has shown that they can easily be fooled by anti-forensic operations designed to hide evidence of forgery. In response, new forensic techniques have been developed to detect the use of anti-forensics. In light of this, there is now a need to develop a theoretical understanding of the interactions between a forger using anti-forensics and a forensic investigator. In this paper, we propose techniques to evaluate the performance of anti-forensic algorithms along with a game theoretic framework for analyzing the interplay between forensics and anti-forensics. Furthermore, we propose a new automatic video frame deletion detection technique along with a technique to detect the use of video anti-forensics. We evaluate these techniques using our proposed analytical framework. \'a9 2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-Forensics;  Digital Forensics;  Game Theory;  Video Compression\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 946\
Sato, M., Yamauchi, T.\
49662264200;36717162100;\
VMM-based log-tampering and loss detection scheme\
(2012) Journal of Internet Technology, 13 (4), pp. 655-666. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84867027651&partnerID=40&md5=42a5fa722dcc3428c113199c764b9a3d\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Graduate School of Natural Science and Technology, Okayama University, Japan\
ABSTRACT: Logging information about the activities that placed in a computer is essential for understanding its behavior. In Homeland Security, the reliability of the computers used in their activities is of paramount importance. However, attackers can delete logs to hide evidence of their activities. Additionally, various problems may result in logs being lost. These problems decrease the dependability of Homeland Security. To address these problems, we previously proposed a secure logging scheme using a virtual machine monitor (VMM). The scheme collects logs and isolates them from the monitored OS. However, the scheme cannot store them automatically. Thus, logs in memory are lost when the computer is shutdown. Further, if the logs are not stored, it is impossible to detect incidents of tampering by comparing the logs of the monitored OS with those of the logging OS. To address these additional problems, this paper proposes a log-storing module and a tamper detection scheme. The log-storing module automatically stores logs collected by the logging module, and tamper detection is realized by comparing these stored log files with those of the monitored OS. We implemented the log-storing module and realized the tamper detection scheme. Evaluations reveal the effectiveness of the tamper detection scheme.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Detecting log tampering;  Digital forensics;  Log protection;  Syslog;  Virtualization technology\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 947\
Lu, Y., Feng, L., Li, X., Jing, T.\
55506516100;57199898830;36975779200;21934071200;\
Recaptured image detection based on surface gradient\
(2012) Beijing Jiaotong Daxue Xuebao/Journal of Beijing Jiaotong University, 36 (5), pp. 57-61. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84870358040&partnerID=40&md5=6f6198b10e9bc339cfbc8e1d7f433173\
\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electronics and Information Engineering, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing 100044, China\
ABSTRACT: For most current image forensic systems, the tamper evidence would be invalid in recaptured image, so the authenticity of the image detected is posed a security threat. This paper proposed a separation method between natural images and recaptured photo images, based on surface gradient of image. In the process of image recapturing, because of using camera twice, recaptured image would have a different non-linear response compared to true image. To prevent the image recapturing attack, we propose a set of statistical features, which capture the common anomalies introduced in the camera recapturing process on surface gradient. With a support vector machine classifier, experiment results show that features work proposed can correctly detect recaptured photo.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Recaptured image detection;  Support vector machine;  Surface gradient\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 948\
Damshenas, M., Dehghantanha, A., Mahmoud, R., Bin Shamsuddin, S.\
55365716600;36023169100;55366701000;23467821400;\
Forensics investigation challenges in cloud computing environments\
(2012) Proceedings 2012 International Conference on Cyber Security, Cyber Warfare and Digital Forensic, CyberSec 2012, art. no. 6246092, pp. 190-194. Cited 53 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84866690602&doi=10.1109%2fCyberSec.2012.6246092&partnerID=40&md5=770fda64c82c059d12a7c4a4845d3aa4\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CyberSec.2012.6246092\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, University Putra Malaysia, Malaysia; \
Cyber Security Malaysia, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: Cloud computing discusses about sharing any imaginable entity such as process units, storage devices or software. The provided service is utterly economical and expandable. Cloud computing attractive benefits entice huge interest of both business owners and cyber thefts. Consequently, the computer forensic investigation step into the play to find evidences against criminals. As a result of the new technology and methods used in cloud computing, the forensic investigation techniques face different types of issues while inspecting the case. The most profound challenges are difficulties to deal with different rulings obliged on variety of data saved in different locations, limited access to obtain evidences from cloud and even the issue of seizing the physical evidence for the sake of integrity validation or evidence presentation. This paper suggests a simple yet very useful solution to conquer the aforementioned issues in forensic investigation of cloud systems. Utilizing TPM in hypervisor, implementing multi-factor authentication and updating the cloud service provider policy to provide persistent storage devices are some of the recommended solutions. Utilizing the proposed solutions, the cloud service will be compatible to the current digital forensic investigation practices; alongside it brings the great advantage of being investigable and consequently the trust of the client. \'a9 2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: cloud computing;  forensic challenges;  forensics investigation;  security;  virtualization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 949\
Horsman, G., Laing, C., Vickers, P.\
55366646200;8925800300;7005903592;\
A method for reducing the risk of errors in digital forensic investigations\
(2012) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 7394 LNCS, pp. 99-106. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84866661246&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-32805-3_8&partnerID=40&md5=221e81abf77df02740f71f64fd2e7351\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-32805-3_8\
AFFILIATIONS: Computing, Engineering and Information Sciences, Northumbria University, Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Motivated by the concerns expressed by many academics over difficulties facing the digital forensic field, user-contributory case-based reasoning (UCCBR); a method for auditing digital forensic investigations is presented. This auditing methodology is not designed to replace a digital forensic practitioner but to aid their investigation process, acting as a method for reducing the risks of missed or misinterpreted evidence. The structure and functionality of UCCBR is discussed and its potential for implementation within a digital forensic environment. \'a9 2012 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Auditing;  Case-based reasoning;  Contributory;  Digital forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 950\
Zhou, Y., Jiang, K.\
55364521900;36160368400;\
An analysis system for computer forensic education, training, and awareness\
(2012) Proceedings - 2012 International Conference on Computing, Measurement, Control and Sensor Network, CMCSN 2012, art. no. 6245813, pp. 48-51. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84866601357&doi=10.1109%2fCMCSN.2012.13&partnerID=40&md5=24953e8b09cc3346291af003042bf412\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CMCSN.2012.13\
AFFILIATIONS: Informatics Department, Fort Hays State University, Hays, United States\
ABSTRACT: This paper aims at making a proper training of computer forensics for companies with the help of a logical analysis system, so as to do preliminaries data protection when the system is targeted under hacking attack. It is necessary to prevent hackers from removing data and wiping electronic evidence. The system will start with collecting the related work and analyze the organization's security policies and strategy, finding out the security level of the computer systems, the work environment for staffs the personnel secures awareness level, and etc. With the security level of this organization, ethical hackers can test the reaction of the organization to a hacking attack. A data model can be made to provide detailed data information for business managers, including the time at which the hacker is found by the organization, the time at which the hacker succeeds in obtaining the server permissions and data. With the help of this system, the organization is able to make a reasonable training and education plan and develop the necessary curricula of computer forensics to enhance the forensics awareness of its staffs. \'a9 2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Awareness;  Education;  Evidence;  Training;  Type\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 951\
Li, J., Gu, D., Luo, Y.\
23985124100;23396549800;56122100000;\
Android malware forensics: Reconstruction of malicious events\
(2012) Proceedings - 32nd IEEE International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems Workshops, ICDCSW 2012, art. no. 6258204, pp. 552-558. Cited 28 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84866433973&doi=10.1109%2fICDCSW.2012.33&partnerID=40&md5=533c50b24a1a308963f260852e79b0b5\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICDCSW.2012.33\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China\
ABSTRACT: Smart mobile devices have been widely used and the contained sensitive information is endangered by malwares. The malicious events caused by malwares are crucial evidences for digital forensic analysis, and the main task of mobile forensic analysis is to reconstruct these events. However, the reconstruction heavily relies on the code analysis of the malware. The difficulties and challenges include how to quickly identify the suspicious programs, how to defeat the anti-forensics tricks of malicious code, and how to deduce the malicious behaviors according to the code. To address this issue, we propose systematic procedures of analyzing typical malware behaviors on the popular mobile operating system Android. Based on the procedures we discuss the deduction of Android malicious events. We also give a real malware forensic case as a reference. \'a9 2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android;  forensic analysis;  malware;  reverse engineering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 952\
Delport, W., Olivier, M.S.\
12646039000;7101741068;\
Cloud separation: Stuck inside the cloud\
(2012) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 7449 LNCS, pp. 36-49. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84866043304&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-32287-7_4&partnerID=40&md5=1432007f614f2c178901dcce8ac34573\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-32287-7_4\
AFFILIATIONS: Information and Computer Security Architectures Research Group, Department of Computer Science, University of Pretoria, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: When something erroneous happens happens in digital environment, a Digital Forensic Investigations (DFIs) can be used to gather information about the event. When conducting a DFI, Digital Forensic Procedures (DFPs) are followed. DFPs provide steps to follow to ensure the successful completion of the DFI. One of the steps in a DFP is to isolate possible evidence in order to protect the evidence from contamination and tampering. The introduction of Cloud computing complicated the isolation process because there is a shared layer between users. This means that the methods used to isolate evidence must be adapted and reworked to work in the Cloud environment. In some cases new procedures need to be introduced to address the isolation problem. In this article we introduce the idea of Cloud separation to isolate a part of the Cloud. We argue that the separation process consists of methods to move instances, as well as methods to divide the Cloud. The paper also introduces methods to accomplish the movement of instances and the division of the Cloud. The paper reports on the finding of testing the dividing methods on different Cloud operating systems in experimental conditions. The experimental outcome was that some of the methods are not applicable to Cloud separation and the methods to be used will depend on the circumstances of the DFI. Out of the experiment some lessons were learnt which should be considered when conducting Cloud separation. \'a9 2012 Springer-Verlag.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud Computing;  Digital Forensic;  Digital Forensics Process;  Isolation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 953\
Chu, H.-C., Yang, S.-W., Wang, S.-J., Park, J.H.\
35172482900;26655086700;7410333676;55665406600;\
The partial digital evidence disclosure in respect to the instant messaging embedded in Viber application regarding an Android smart phone\
(2012) Lecture Notes in Electrical Engineering, 180 LNEE, pp. 171-178. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84865987689&doi=10.1007%2f978-94-007-5083-8_22&partnerID=40&md5=6e4650055fb1dfd7f0855c2c0cdd3db6\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-94-007-5083-8_22\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of International Business, National Taichung University of Education, 140 Min-Shen Road, Taichung 40306, Taiwan; \
Department of Education, National Taichung University of Education, 140 Min-Shen Road, Taichung 40306, Taiwan; \
Department of Information Management, Central Police University, 56 Shujen Road, Kueishan Hsiang, Taoyuan 33304, Taiwan; \
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Seoul National University of Science and Technology, 172 Gongneung-dong 2, Nowon-gu 139743, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: As Android Operating System (OS) for smart phones become pervasive, more and more end users are taking advantage of the contemporary Instant Messaging (IM) tools with high availability and agile mobility. Unfortunately, the cyber criminals or hacktivists are abusing this state-of-the-art mobile communication gadget to fulfill illegal conspiracies. The content with regard to the IM is a critical success factor in cracking some complicated cyber crime cases in a timely manner. The paper significantly contributes to the research arena of Digital Forensics (DF) practitioners and researchers respecting partial digital evidence disclosure in a generic Viber session in Android mobile OS due to the commonness of IM under contemporary ubiquitous on-demand computing infrastructures. Being accumulated with sophisticated researches both in Android smart phones and the Viber Application Program (AP), this paper is capable of utilizing some specific search string in regard to the image of the Random Access Memory (RAM) in order to disclose the digital breadcrumb in terms of the received IM and the cellular phone number in previous Viber sessions as probative evidenced in a court of law. \'a9 2012 Springer Science+Business Media.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android smart phone;  digital evidence;  instant messaging;  non-volatile memory;  Viber application program\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 954\
Kwok, C.-W., Au, O.C., Chui, S.-H.\
39361653600;7005864651;39360891100;\
Alternative anti-forensics method for contrast enhancement\
(2012) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 7128 LNCS, pp. 398-410. Cited 21 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84865701450&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-32205-1_32&partnerID=40&md5=2b5b88121fb7d5cc2e050fa6cbb989e2\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-32205-1_32\
AFFILIATIONS: Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Department of Electronic and Computer Engineering, Hong Kong\
ABSTRACT: Digital image forensic researchers have proposed different robust detection schemes to classify authentic images and contrast enhanced images. The main idea of the detectors is based on the peaks and gaps introduced in the histogram after performing contrast enhancement on an image. The classifier using these peak-gap artifacts as feature achieves high accuracy result. After that, Anti-forensic researchers proposed a method to remove the peak-gap artifacts by local random dithering method which significantly reduces the accuracy of current detection scheme. In this paper, an alternative anti-forensic method is proposed to avoid the peak-gap artifacts and still have good image quality in terms of PSNR. We perform the experiment by calculating PSNR between traditional contrast enhanced images and our result images. \'a9 2012 Springer-Verlag.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-Forensics;  contrast enhancement;  Digital Forensics;  Security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 955\
Delgado, M., Aparicio, M., Costa, C.\
57197393435;7101936948;7201473845;\
Using Open Source for forensic purposes\
(2012) ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, pp. 31-37. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84864133679&doi=10.1145%2f2316936.2316943&partnerID=40&md5=ead3a7681b8ce6005cd94f82a144dc4d\
\
DOI: 10.1145/2316936.2316943\
AFFILIATIONS: ISCTE, IUL, R. Manuel Ferreira Andrade, 29-C 1500-416 Lisboa, Portugal; \
Adetti-IUL, ISCTE, IUL, Av.a das For\'e7as Armadas, 1649-026 Lisboa, Portugal\
ABSTRACT: This article provides an overview of thebasic digital forensic process. In different contexts of crime, the use of "computer forensics" is a usual way to gather evidence. Digital data is collected and analyzed in order to be presented in courtas evidenceof illegal activities. This is already afirst-line optionin mostcasesfor criminal investigation. For some types of crime,particularly economic and financial research focuses on thestorage devices.In the context of a crime,create and certify a full Image of suspect device sis vitalto preserveits integrity.The disk image, takesector by sector copy usually for forensic purposes, and as such will contain some mechanism(internal verification) to prove that the copy is accurate and has not changed.In this work we present some Open Source tools to perform an effective role in computer forensics, which ensure the realization of these images, fulfilling all the requirements, so that any evidence recovered from his analysis, may be admitted in court. Copyright 2012 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Electronic crime;  Financial crime;  Open source\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 956\
Stamm, M.C., Lin, W.S., Liu, K.J.R.\
34870520200;56997848600;7404200118;\
Temporal forensics and anti-forensics for motion compensated video\
(2012) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 7 (4), art. no. 6222325, pp. 1315-1329. Cited 137 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84864056133&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2012.2205568&partnerID=40&md5=cbf70d75f5c260ec071e51cc20cf3b6d\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2012.2205568\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742, United States; \
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, OR 97124, United States\
ABSTRACT: Due to the ease with which digital information can be altered, many digital forensic techniques have been developed to authenticate multimedia content. Similarly, a number of anti-forensic operations have recently been designed to make digital forgeries undetectable by forensic techniques. However, like the digital manipulations they are designed to hide, many anti-forensic operations leave behind their own forensically detectable traces. As a result, a digital forger must balance the trade-off between completely erasing evidence of their forgery and introducing new evidence of anti-forensic manipulation. Because a forensic investigator is typically bound by a constraint on their probability of false alarm $(P-\{\\rm fa\})$, they must also balance a trade-off between the accuracy with which they detect forgeries and the accuracy with which they detect the use of anti-forensics. In this paper, we analyze the interaction between a forger and a forensic investigator by examining the problem of authenticating digital videos. Specifically, we study the problem of adding or deleting a sequence of frames from a digital video. We begin by developing a theoretical model of the forensically detectable fingerprints that frame deletion or addition leaves behind, then use this model to improve upon the video frame deletion or addition detection technique proposed by Wang and Farid. Next, we propose an anti-forensic technique designed to fool video forensic techniques and develop a method for detecting the use of anti-forensics. We introduce a new set of techniques for evaluating the performance of anti-forensic operations and develop a game theoretic framework for analyzing the interplay between a forensic investigator and a forger. We use these new techniques to evaluate the performance of each of our proposed forensic and anti-forensic techniques, and identify the optimal actions of both the forger and forensic investigator. \'a9 2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: anti-forensics;  Digital forensics;  frame deletion;  game theory;  video compression\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 957\
Fails, A.\
55258352100;\
Computer forensics using graphics processing unit for file searching\
(2012) Proceedings of the Annual Southeast Conference, pp. 391-392. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84862671727&doi=10.1145%2f2184512.2184620&partnerID=40&md5=453d5f77c129f503bc7646c6e8ddf613\
\
DOI: 10.1145/2184512.2184620\
AFFILIATIONS: Tuskegee University, Benjamin Payton Dr., Tuskegee, AL 36088, United States\
ABSTRACT: In this project, I conduct a research that strives to make a huge impact on the area of computer forensics. When performing various investigations the process of finding evidence can be a lengthy one in terms of time and resources. We felt it would be cool if we could somehow use a GPU to aid in computer forensic investigations, particularly searching for files. The objective of this research is to test the time efficiency of a standard search method, and compare the results with GPU multi-threading search method. My hypothesis is that the GPU multiprocessors will significantly reduce the time and resources it takes to go through with an investigation of searching for files. My hypothesis is that the GPU multiprocessors will significantly reduce the time and resources it takes to go through with an investigation of searching for files, rendering the time it takes obsolete so that the original, reliable evidence may be used for prosecutions, validation of misconduct, etc. The structure of the graphics processing unit is designed specifically for heavily, complex computations, compared to central processing units that are designed for memory and storage purposes. \'a9 2012 Author.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: computer forensics;  CUDA;  graphics processing unit (GPU);  master file table (MFT);  new technology file system (NTFS)\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 958\
Van Den Bos, J., Van Der Storm, T.\
42162324700;23399139300;\
Domain-specific optimization in digital forensics\
(2012) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 7307 LNCS, pp. 121-136. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84862189811&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-30476-7_8&partnerID=40&md5=de262eb2bde3871f994d9425224e6fff\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-30476-7_8\
AFFILIATIONS: Centrum Wiskunde and Informatica, Amsterdam, Netherlands; \
Netherlands Forensic Institute, Den Haag, Netherlands\
ABSTRACT: File carvers are forensic software tools used to recover data from storage devices in order to find evidence. Every legal case requires different trade-offs between precision and runtime performance. The resulting required changes to the software tools are performed manually and under the strictest deadlines. In this paper we present a model-driven approach to file carver development that enables these trade-offs to be automated. By transforming high-level file format specifications into approximations that are more permissive, forensic investigators can trade precision for performance, without having to change source. Our study shows that performance gains up to a factor of three can be achieved, at the expense of up to 8% in precision and 5% in recall. \'a9 2012 Springer-Verlag.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 959 **SELECTED** SID: 52\
Khan, M.N.A.\
37036519300;\
Performance analysis of Bayesian networks and neural networks in classification of file system activities\
(2012) Computers and Security, 31 (4), pp. 391-401. Cited 25 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84861097270&doi=10.1016%2fj.cose.2012.03.003&partnerID=40&md5=ce8fcd296af14dee9e9944ad65f80530\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.cose.2012.03.003\
AFFILIATIONS: Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Institute of Science and Technology (SZABIST), Street #09, H-8/4, Islamabad, Pakistan\
ABSTRACT: Precise comprehension of a file system state at any given time is vital for performing digital forensic analyses. To uncover evidence of the digital crime, the logical representation of file system activities helps reconstruct post-event timeline of the unauthorized or malicious accesses made on a system. This paper describes a comparative performance analysis of the Bayesian networks and neural networks techniques to classify the state of file system activities in terms of execution of applications based on the pattern of manipulation of specific files during certain period of time. In particular, this paper discusses the construction of a Bayesian networks and neural networks from the predetermined knowledge of the manipulation of file system artifacts and their corresponding metadata information by a set of software applications. The variability amongst the execution patterns of various applications indicate that the Bayesian network-based model is a more appropriate tool as compared to neural networks because of its ability to learn and detect patterns even from an incomplete dataset. The focus of this paper is to highlight intrinsic significance of the learning approach of Bayesian network methodology in comparison to the techniques used for supervised learning in ordinary neural networks. The paper also highlights the efficacy of Bayesian network technique to proficiently handle large volumes of datasets. \'a9 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Bayesian decision theory;  Bayesian learning;  Computer forensic analysis;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Neural networks\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 960\
Chen, H.\
55157579300;\
Dilemmas in digital forensics for computer equipment security and maintenance in remote ships\
(2012) Advanced Materials Research, 490-495, pp. 1382-1386. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84859191436&doi=10.4028%2fwww.scientific.net%2fAMR.490-495.1382&partnerID=40&md5=380077648e8b1d58cc31dbf998dac578\
\
DOI: 10.4028/www.scientific.net/AMR.490-495.1382\
AFFILIATIONS: Naval University of Engineering, Wuhan, 430031, China\
ABSTRACT: As remote ships have equipped a large number of computer equipments, the maintenance of such equipments confronts a great challenge. Since some embedded devices among them may be hacked by attackers or disabled by Byzantine failure, to discover the attacking originality and fault source present foremost importance. In this article, we discuss digital investigation and forensics as a general viewpoint. We point out some dilemmas that hinder the development of digital forensics, some of which may be fundamental problems. We propose to expand the concept of digital forensics to a wider scope so as to include digital investigation for information instead of only evidence. We also argue that the fostering of novel contributions should be relied on technical experts instead of law experts as emerging new techniques always result in new digital crimes. We promote the divorce between the technical experts who focus on the contribution of technologies, and legal authorities who are responsible to bridge the gap between technologies and standard/formalization. Digital forensics methods are encouraged to be publicly available, but the contributors should be aware of the possibility of anti-forensics. \'a9 (2012) Trans Tech Publications, Switzerland.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Digital investigation;  Equipment maintenance;  Marine machines\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 961 **SELECTED** SID: 54\
Rekhis, S., Boudriga, N.\
8546749800;6701876349;\
A system for formal digital forensic investigation aware of anti-forensic attacks\
(2012) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 7 (2), art. no. 6081933, pp. 635-650. Cited 21 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84858413802&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2011.2176117&partnerID=40&md5=f2f1f024c88a7089fb3d1484270fc1ec\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2011.2176117\
AFFILIATIONS: Communication Networks and Security Research Laboratory, University of Carthage, El Ghazala Technopark, 5, Ariana 2083, Tunisia\
ABSTRACT: To defeat the process of investigation and make the analysis and reconstruction of attack scenarios difficult, challenging, or even impossible, attackers are motivated by conducting anti-forensic attacks. Several methods were proposed by the literature to formally reconstruct the sequence of events executed during the incident using theoretical and scientifically proven methods. However, these methods are not tailored to cope with anti-forensic attacks, as they assume that the collected evidence is trusted, do not model anti-forensic actions, and do not characterize provable anti-forensic attacks based on the knowledge of attacks, security solutions, and forms of evidence expected to be generated. We develop in this work a theoretical approach of digital investigation aware of anti-forensic attacks. After describing an investigation process which is able to address these attacks, we develop a state-based logic to describe the investigated system, the deployed security solution, the evidence they provide, and the library of attacks. An inference system is proposed to mitigate anti-forensic attacks and generate potential scenarios starting from traces that were targeted by these attacks. To exemplify the proposal, we provide a case study related to the investigation of an incident that exhibited anti-forensic attacks. \'a9 2006 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensic attacks investigation;  formal attack scenarios reconstruction;  inference system\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 962\
Wang, L., Li, H.\
10041394500;16064070800;\
Effect of live evidence acquisition process on the change of Windows XP SP2 Registry\
(2012) Procedia Engineering, 29, pp. 1246-1252. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84863368887&doi=10.1016%2fj.proeng.2012.01.121&partnerID=40&md5=fea1cdebe550dc72c242a1d3001b40bb\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.proeng.2012.01.121\
AFFILIATIONS: Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Computer Network, Shandong Computer Science Center, Jinan, 250014, China\
ABSTRACT: In the paper, we discuss the impact of performing live registry response on the target windows system during loading memory acquisition tools. Every running tool on an investigated system leaves artifacts and changes the system state. Therefore, we should verify the registry evidences in court exacted from memory invalid or not. Firstly, we measure the memory uncertainty in a natural running state (without any other extra tasks) and calculate the blurriness both during loading acquisition tools for live forensics. Then, we employ the MemoryAnalyzer which is developed by ourselves to extract the registry from the acquired memory. Finally, we analyze and compare keys. subkeys and values of the extracted registry hive fives with the original one using Windows Registry File Viewer. Experiments on Windows XP Service Pack 2 under VMware\'ae Workstation show that, the memory state are mainly changed by the loading acquisition tool although it is also influenced by its natural running. And what's interesting is that the novel extracted registry subkeys and values can not be deleted by the live memory acquisition tool, just added some keys and values related with acquisition tools in the SYSTEM hive file, and modified key values (usually represent visited or running time) in the SOFTWRE and NTUSER.DAT hive files. Therefore, the registry is trustable even that it is extracted from acquired memory. \'a9 2011 Published by Elsevier Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Memory acquisition tools;  Microsoft Windows;  Registry;  Volatile memory\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 963\
Battisti, F., Carli, M., Neri, A.\
22978219700;57218214191;55698555100;\
Image forgery detection by means of no-reference quality metrics\
(2012) Proceedings of SPIE - The International Society for Optical Engineering, 8303, art. no. 83030K, . Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84858258537&doi=10.1117%2f12.910778&partnerID=40&md5=11a5c569e521103c50500a1b83c13b76\
\
DOI: 10.1117/12.910778\
AFFILIATIONS: Applied Electronics Department, Universit\'e1 degli Studi Roma TRE, Rome, Italy\
ABSTRACT: In this paper a methodology for digital image forgery detection by means of an unconventional use of image quality assessment is addressed. In particular, the presence of differences in quality degradations impairing the images is adopted to reveal the mixture of different source patches. The ratio behind this work is in the hypothesis that any image may be affected by artifacts, visible or not, caused by the processing steps: acquisition (i.e., lens distortion, acquisition sensors imperfections, analog to digital conversion, single sensor to color pattern interpolation), processing (i.e., quantization, storing, jpeg compression, sharpening, deblurring, enhancement), and rendering (i.e., image decoding, color/size adjustment). These defects are generally spatially localized and their strength strictly depends on the content. For these reasons they can be considered as a fingerprint of each digital image. The proposed approach relies on a combination of image quality assessment systems. The adopted no-reference metric does not require any information about the original image, thus allowing an efficient and stand-alone blind system for image forgery detection. The experimental results show the effectiveness of the proposed scheme. \'a9 2012 Copyright Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers (SPIE).\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cut-and-Paste Forgery detection;  Digital Forensics;  Image Forgeries;  Image Quality metrics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 964\
Cao, G., Zhao, Y., Ni, R.\
57193213735;35304414700;55632437300;\
Forensic identification of resampling operators: A semi non-intrusive approach\
(2012) Forensic Science International, 216 (1-3), pp. 29-36. Cited 12 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84857504569&doi=10.1016%2fj.forsciint.2011.08.012&partnerID=40&md5=2b96783359f9c34abfb7f9e5cdcb330e\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2011.08.012\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Information Science, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing 100044, China; \
Beijing Key Laboratory of Advanced Information Science and Network Technology, Beijing 100044, China; \
No. 3 Shang Yuan Cun, Hai Dian District, Beijing, China\
ABSTRACT: Recently, several new resampling operators have been proposed and successfully invalidate the existing resampling detectors. However, the reliability of such anti-forensic techniques is unaware and needs to be investigated. In this paper, we focus on the forensic identification of digital image resampling operators including the traditional type and the anti-forensic type which hides the trace of traditional resampling. Various resampling algorithms involving geometric distortion (GD)-based, dual-path-based and postprocessing-based are investigated. The identification is achieved in the manner of semi non-intrusive, supposing the resampling software could be accessed. Given an input pattern of monotone signal, polarity aberration of GD-based resampled signal's first derivative is analyzed theoretically and measured by effective feature metric. Dual-path-based and postprocessing-based resampling can also be identified by feeding proper test patterns. Experimental results on various parameter settings demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach. \'a9 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Resampling;  Semi non-intrusive;  Software forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 965\
Tsai, M.-J., Wang, C.-S., Liu, J., Yin, J.-S.\
7403551509;35148801200;35069609300;54390601600;\
Using decision fusion of feature selection in digital forensics for camera source model identification\
(2012) Computer Standards and Interfaces, 34 (3), pp. 292-304. Cited 18 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84857053950&doi=10.1016%2fj.csi.2011.10.006&partnerID=40&md5=bc2fc6ee669117e23270cdcaba252154\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.csi.2011.10.006\
AFFILIATIONS: National Chiao Tung University, Institute of Information Management, 1001 Ta-Hsueh Road, Hsin-Chu 300, Taiwan; \
Ta Hwa Institute of Technology, Department of Information Management, 1 Tahwa Road, Chiunglin 307, Taiwan\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics, which identifies the characteristics and origin of a digital device, has become a new field of research. If digital content will serve as evidence in court, similar to its non-digital counterparts, digital forensics can play a crucial role in identifying the source model or device. To achieve this goal, the relationship between an image and its camera model will be explored. Various image-related and hardware-related features are utilized in the proposed model by a support vector machine approach along with decision fusion techniques. Furthermore, the optimum feature subset to achieve the highest accuracy rate is also explored. \'a9 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Camera model identification;  Decision fusion;  Digital image forensics;  Feature selection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 966\
Amro, S.A., Chiclana, F., Elizondo, D.A.\
54940122100;9134178600;6701557179;\
Application of fuzzy logic in computer security and forensics\
(2012) Studies in Computational Intelligence, 394, pp. 35-49. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84856478204&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-25237-2_4&partnerID=40&md5=4539d7d2803b5fe11df0f80665d69fe7\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-25237-2_4\
AFFILIATIONS: Software Technology Research Laboratory (STRL), Department of Computer Technology, De Montfort University, Leicester, United Kingdom; \
Centre for Computational Intelligence, Dept. of Informatics, De Montfort University, Leicester, United Kingdom; \
Computer Forensics and Security Group, Department of Computer Technology, De Montfort University, Leicester, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Due to the growing reliance that corporations and government agencies place on their computer networks, the significance of defending these systems from attack cannot be underestimated. A single malicious encroachment into a computer network can cause a great deal of damage to an organisation. Computer Security concerns the protection of information and property from misuse by unauthorized people. Computer forensics provides methods for the preservation, collection, validation, identification, analysis, interpretation, documentation and presentation of digital evidence derived from digital sources for the reconstruction of criminal activities or policy violation. Fuzzy logic can properly be used to help deal with issues associated with computer security and computer forensics. This chapter deals with the use of fuzzy logic in computer security and forensics, providing a general overview of some of its applications, recent algorithms, abilities, advantages and drawbacks. \'a9 2012 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 967\
Conotter, V., O'Brien, J.F., Farid, H.\
24075511900;56978184900;7007029048;\
Exposing digital forgeries in ballistic motion\
(2012) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 7 (1 PART 2), art. no. 5995165, pp. 283-296. Cited 50 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84855921857&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2011.2165843&partnerID=40&md5=432e9c36f9f98ab0ee2d2bd3600220a1\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2011.2165843\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Engineering and Computer Science, University of Trento, Trento, 38122, Italy; \
Department of Computer Science, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720, United States; \
Department of Computer Science, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH 03755-3510, United States\
ABSTRACT: We describe a geometric technique to detect physically implausible trajectories of objects in video sequences. This technique explicitly models the three-dimensional ballistic motion of objects in free-flight and the two-dimensional projection of the trajectory into the image plane of a static or moving camera. Deviations from this model provide evidence of manipulation. The technique assumes that the object's trajectory is substantially influenced only by gravity, that the image of the object's center of mass can be determined from the images, and requires that any camera motion can be estimated from background elements. The computational requirements of the algorithm are modest, and any detected inconsistencies can be illustrated in an intuitive, geometric fashion. We demonstrate the efficacy of this analysis on videos of our own creation and on videos obtained from video-sharing websites. \'a9 2011 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  video forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 968\
Cao, Y., Gao, T., Fan, L., Yang, Q.\
55413875700;56265066300;36805621700;36515930800;\
A robust detection algorithm for copy-move forgery in digital images\
(2012) Forensic Science International, 214 (1-3), pp. 33-43. Cited 176 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84855205141&doi=10.1016%2fj.forsciint.2011.07.015&partnerID=40&md5=fae3a0dd7c6c8772a1ae2d4f8aca8195\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2011.07.015\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Information Technical Science, Nankai University, Tianjin 300071, China; \
College of Software, Information Security Technology Lab, Nankai University, Tianjin 300071, China\
ABSTRACT: With the availability of the powerful editing software and sophisticated digital cameras, region duplication is becoming more and more popular in image manipulation where part of an image is pasted to another location to conceal undesirable objects. Most existing techniques to detect such tampering are mainly at the cost of higher computational complexity. In this paper, we present an efficient and robust approach to detect such specific artifact. Firstly, the original image is divided into fixed-size blocks, and discrete cosine transform (DCT) is applied to each block, thus, the DCT coefficients represent each block. Secondly, each cosine transformed block is represented by a circle block and four features are extracted to reduce the dimension of each block. Finally, the feature vectors are lexicographically sorted, and duplicated image blocks will be matched by a preset threshold value. In order to make the algorithm more robust, some parameters are proposed to remove the wrong similar blocks. Experiment results show that our proposed scheme is not only robust to multiple copy-move forgery, but also to blurring or nosing adding and with low computational complexity. \'a9 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Circle block;  Copy-move forgery;  Digital forensic;  Region duplication detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 969\
Sammons, J.\
55827537900;\
The Basics of Digital Forensics\
(2012) The Basics of Digital Forensics, 177 p. Cited 31 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85013929036&doi=10.1016%2fC2010-0-68337-4&partnerID=40&md5=7abe809b7d531c63653ec271f98b4602\
\
DOI: 10.1016/C2010-0-68337-4\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Integrated Science and Technology, Marshall University, Huntington, WV, United States\
ABSTRACT: The Basics of Digital Forensics will provide a foundation for people new to the digital forensics field.This book will teach people how to condusct examiniations by discussing what Digital Forensics is, the methodologies used, and the tools needed to perform examinations. The audience will learn how to prepare an investigative plan, as well as how to prepare for courtroom testimony. Learn all about what Digital Forensics entails Build a toolkit and prepare an investigative plan Understand the common artifacts to look for during an exam. \'a9 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 970\
Fahmy, G.\
55890044900;\
Detectable tampering of JPEG anti-forensics\
(2012) WIAR 2012 - National Workshop on Information Assurance Research, Proceedings, pp. 45-48. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84929257836&partnerID=40&md5=d92e5c5870e0554b15f2f635e6cc943c\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Electrical Engineering Dept., Majmaah University, Saudi Arabia\
ABSTRACT: Many forensic techniques recently tried to detect the tampering and manipulation of JPEG compressed images that became a critical problem in image authentication and origin tracking. Some techniques indicated that a knowledgeable attacker can make it very hard to trace the image origin, while others indicated that portions of the compressed image that has been compressed at different quality factor quantization matrices are distinguishable if they are recompressed at a higher quality factor quantization matrix (with less quantization steps). In this paper, we pursue the idea of recompressing forensically suspect-able images with different compression parameters. We use different quantization matrix sizes that would indicate a DCT projection at different frequencies (horizontally, vertically, and diagonally), and would make it easier to track any tampering or hacking footprints. We show that a JPEG compressed image can make these footprints distinguishable if recompressed with a smaller size quantization matrix. Illustrative examples are presented. \'a9 WIAR 2012 - National Workshop on Information Assurance Research, Proceedings. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti forensic;  Image forensics;  JPEG edits\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 971\
Heriyanto, A.P.\
56446936000;\
What is the proper forensics approach on Trojan banking malware incidents?\
(2012) Proceedings of the 10th Australian Digital Forensics Conference, ADF 2012, pp. 10-20. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84917676525&partnerID=40&md5=d643e48ef0169845fe1a7a3f0f445611\
\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computing and Security Science, Edith Cowan University, Perth, WA, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics procedures should be developed to obtain digital evidence with regard to legal requirements such as admissibility, authenticity, completeness, reliability and believability. On the other hand, Trojan banking malware incident has grown significantly and creates a great threat to online banking users globally. This type of malware is known to use anti-forensic technique to avoid forensic detection. Moreover, there are numerous works and researches that impose the drawbacks on post-mortem forensics approach in dealing with evidence that only resided on non-persistence memory or non-volatile memory. There are works that reveal the disadvantage of live-response approach on incident response that might compromise the evidence as well. For the last four years, there is notably developed on memory forensics approach that focusing on malware incidents. This paper demonstrates the procedures that use three different forensics approaches on three different Trojan banking malware samples: Cridex, ZeuS and SpyEye. The aim of this work is to obtain the proper forensics approach on Trojan banking malware incidents. The paper also uses a network forensics approach to gather and analyse the network-based evidence.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence;  Host-based evidence;  Memory forensics;  Network based evidence;  Post-mortem forensics;  Trojan banking malwares;  Windows registry forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 972\
Fernandez, E.B., Alder, E., Bagley, R., Paghdar, S.\
7402178980;55758016800;57224701914;55757786900;\
A misuse pattern for retrieving data from a database using SQL injection\
(2012) Proceedings of the 2012 ASE International Conference on BioMedical Computing, BioMedCom 2012, art. no. 6516440, pp. 127-131. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84878713793&doi=10.1109%2fBioMedCom.2012.27&partnerID=40&md5=90b95c92bb5476f18e23accadbdfd893\
\
DOI: 10.1109/BioMedCom.2012.27\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Computer Science, Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, FL, United States\
ABSTRACT: SQL injection attacks represent a serious threat to any database-driven site and they are one of the most frequent types of attacks. We present here a misuse pattern for retrieving data from a database using SQL injection, which describes the essential and typical characteristics of this type of attack. A misuse pattern describes from the point of view of the attacker, how a type of attack or misuse is performed (what units it uses and how), looks at the selection of the methods available to the attacker, analyzes the way of stopping the attack, and describes how to trace the attack once it has happened by appropriate collection and observation of forensic data. \'a9 2012 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: computer security;  data security breach;  forensics;  misuse pattern;  security pattern;  SQL injection attacks\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 973\
Lalla, H., Flowerday, S., Sanyamahwe, T., Tarwireyi, P.\
55566458800;9434584800;55566228700;53165157800;\
A log file digital forensic model\
(2012) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 383 AICT, pp. 247-259. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84872737901&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-33962-2_17&partnerID=40&md5=55e354291950f69e88ee9eefbfbcf5f8\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-33962-2_17\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Fort Hare, East London, South Africa; \
Department of Information Systems, University of Fort Hare, East London, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: This paper describes a digital forensic model for investigating computer networks, focusing specifically on network log mining. A thorough examination of log files is needed to reveal the hidden actions of criminals in computer networks. The proposed model specifies the steps that forensic investigators can follow with regard to the extraction and examination of digital evidence from log files for use in legal proceedings. \'a9 2012 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensic model;  log files;  network forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 974\
Al-Kuwari, S., Wolthusen, S.\
36239805600;55887434700;\
Forensic tracking and mobility prediction in vehicular networks\
(2012) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 383 AICT, pp. 303-317. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84872721461&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-33962-2_21&partnerID=40&md5=1f9bfd56c883ff5ab498673568bdd5f2\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-33962-2_21\
AFFILIATIONS: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Doha, Qatar; \
Department of Information Security, Norwegian Information Security Laboratory, Gjovik University College, Gjovik, Norway; \
Royal Holloway, University of London, London, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Most contemporary tracking applications consider an online approach where the target is tracked in real time. In criminal investigations, however, it is often the case that only offline tracking is possible, i.e., tracking takes place after the fact. In offline tracking, given an incomplete trace of a target, the task is to reconstruct the missing parts and obtain the full trace. The proliferation of modern transportation systems means that a targeted entity is likely to use multiple modes of transportation. This paper introduces a class of mobility models tailored for forensic analysis. The mobility models are used to construct a multi-modal forensic tracking system that can reconstruct a complete trace of a target. Theoretical analysis of the reconstruction algorithm demonstrates that it is both complete and optimal. \'a9 2012 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forensic tracking;  mobility models;  trace reconstruction\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 975\
Delport, W., Olivier, M.\
12646039000;7101741068;\
Isolating instances in cloud forensics\
(2012) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 383 AICT, pp. 187-200. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84872700092&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-33962-2_13&partnerID=40&md5=2cd37671f32ac03864216541f36e2753\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-33962-2_13\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa; \
Department of Computer Science, University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: The isolation of a computing environment is an integral part of a digital forensic process. Isolation helps prevent evidence contamination and possible tampering. This paper focuses on the process of isolating instances in cloud computing systems. Several conditions are specified to serve as a guide for the successful isolation of cloud instances. Also, the complications that can arise during a cloud forensic investigation are discussed. \'a9 2012 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud forensics;  instances;  isolation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 976\
Dong, Q., Yang, G., Zhu, N.\
55292778300;8647279200;8433371900;\
A MCEA based passive forensics scheme for detecting frame-based video tampering\
(2012) Digital Investigation, 9 (2), pp. 151-159. Cited 45 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84870242106&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2012.07.002&partnerID=40&md5=c7ed7c5afdcb7abc590fb421faa35bba\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2012.07.002\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information Science and Engineering, Hunan University, Lushan Road, Changsha, 410082 Hunan, China\
ABSTRACT: Without the use of digital signature or digital watermark, video passive forensics only utilizes the statistical characteristics of digital video to verify its integrity and authenticity. For frame-based video tampering, it usually suffers from double MPEG compression. In this paper, a motion-compensated edge artifact (MCEA) based passive forensics scheme is proposed for detecting frame-based video manipulation. It exploits the MCEA difference between adjacent P frames, and the decision is made by judging whether there are any spikes in the Fourier transform domain after double MPEG compression. Experimental results show that the proposed approach is effective for frame-based tampering, such as adding/deleting frames and GOP structure change, and can predict the GOP structure of original video. \'a9 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital media forensics;  Fourier transform;  GOP;  Motion-compensated edge artifact;  Passive forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 977\
Gupta, M., Barwa, J., Kumath, M., Kharab, V., Gupta, A., Panwar, M.\
55465753300;49662873100;16052936800;55496927400;57198677074;55147236000;\
Digital forensics, hacking and its role in crime investigations\
(2012) Medico-Legal Update, 12 (2), pp. 98-100. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84869776851&partnerID=40&md5=828c60e70899242841ea6fe867615582\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Forensic Medicine, Maulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi - 2, India; \
Department of Forensic Medicine, India; \
Department of Anaesthesia, Pt Madan Mohan Malviya Hospital, New Delhi, India; \
Department of Anaesthesia, VMMC and Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi - 29, India\
ABSTRACT: The growing role of computers in various fields has not left legal medicine untouched. Where it has served to be a boon for the professionals, it has also led to the increasing fears regarding the manipulation and alteration of evidences from the cyber world. This paper deals with the importance of digital forensics in administration of justice and the problems that may be faced due to hacking.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Hacking\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 978\
Duranti, L., Rogers, C.\
15050256300;54406056200;\
Trust in digital records: An increasingly cloudy legal area\
(2012) Computer Law and Security Review, 28 (5), pp. 522-531. Cited 18 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84869158746&doi=10.1016%2fj.clsr.2012.07.009&partnerID=40&md5=6ea2d18f623a0122d69f2b5823a5db54\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.clsr.2012.07.009\
AFFILIATIONS: University of British Columbia, School of Library, Archives, and Information Studies, Irving K. Barber Learning Centre, Suite 470-1961 East Mall, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z1, Canada\
ABSTRACT: Trust has been defined in many ways, but at its core it involves acting without the knowledge needed to act. Trust in records depends on four types of knowledge about the creator or custodian of the records: reputation, past performance, competence, and the assurance of confidence in future performance. For over half a century society has been developing and adopting new computer technologies for business and communications in both the public and private realm. Frameworks for establishing trust have developed as technology has progressed. Today, individuals and organizations are increasingly saving and accessing records in cloud computing infrastructures, where we cannot assess our trust in records solely on the four types of knowledge used in the past. Drawing on research conducted at the University of British Columbia into the nature of digital records and their trustworthiness, this article presents the conceptual archival and digital forensic frameworks of trust in records and data, and explores the common law legal framework within which questions of trust in documentary evidence are being tested. Issues and challenges specific to cloud computing are introduced. \'a9 2012 Patrick Ryan & Sarah Falvey.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cloud computing;  Digital documentary evidence;  Digital forensics;  Digital records;  Law of evidence\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 979\
Jiang, Z.L., Fang, J., Yiu, S.M., Chow, K.P., Hui, L.C.K., Chen, L., Niu, X., Wang, X.\
24344329800;36132767400;7003282240;7202180751;8905728300;57192609278;7103278179;55981036800;\
A dual cube hashing scheme for solving hard disk integrity verification problem\
(2012) International Journal of Digital Content Technology and its Applications, 6 (13), pp. 285-296. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84866426793&doi=10.4156%2fjdcta.vol6.issue13.31&partnerID=40&md5=7e0ac0fccce25ee3118c44d11679a62c\
\
DOI: 10.4156/jdcta.vol6.issue13.31\
AFFILIATIONS: Harbin Institute of Technology Shenzhen Graduate School, Shenzhen 518055, China; \
Department of Optoelectronic Engineering, Jinan University, Guangzhou 510632, China; \
Key Laboratory of Optoelectronic Information and Sensing Technologies of Guangdong, Higher Education Institutes, Jinan University, Guangzhou 510632, China; \
Department of Computer Science, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, Hong Kong; \
Institute of Computer Science and Technology, Chongqing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Chongqing, 400000, China; \
Faculty of Computer Science, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin, 150000, China\
ABSTRACT: In digital forensics, data stored in a hard disk usually contains valuable evidence. Preserving the integrity of the data in the hard disk is a critical issue. A single hash value for the whole hard disk is not appropriate as the investigation may take a long time and latent sector errors (LSEs) (bad sectors due to media imperfection, for example) which cause a sector suddenly unreadable will make the hash value inconsistent. On the other hand, using a hash per sector may need to store a lot of hash values. Previous research has been conducted to use fewer hash values, but can resist some of LSEs to decrease the number of unverifiable sectors even if there are LSEs. This integrity problem is more complicated in the presence of Legal Professional Privileged (LPP) data inside a seized hard disk in digital forensic as the hard disk has to be cloned once seized and the original hard disk will be sealed after cloning. Hash values need to be computed during this cloning process. However, the cloned copy will be returned to the suspect for the deletion of LPP data before the investigator can work on the sanitized copy. Thus, the integrity of unmodified sectors has to be verified using the hash values computed based on the original hard disk. This paper found that existing schemes are not good enough to solve the integrity verification problem in the presence of both LSEs and deletion of LPP-protected data. We then propose the idea of a Dual Cube hashing scheme. The experiments show the proposed scheme performs better than the previous schemes and fits easily into the digital forensic procedure. Besides, an improved Dual Cube scheme with a new sector distribution algorithm is also proposed to further decrease the number of affected sectors by about 2 order of magnitude when the number of deleted sectors is increased to about 1 million.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: 3-Dimension hashing;  Dual cube;  Hard disk integrity;  Latent sector errors (Lses);  Legal professional privilege (LPP)\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 980\
Devi Mahalakshmi, S., Vijayalakshmi, K., Priyadharsini, S.\
38660901700;57217096407;57215535968;\
Digital image forgery detection and estimation by exploring basic image manipulations\
(2012) Digital Investigation, 8 (3-4), pp. 215-225. Cited 32 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84857919279&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2011.06.004&partnerID=40&md5=82f395366bde696d242166774339df61\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2011.06.004\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Science and Engineering Department, Mepco Schlenk Engineering College, Mepco Engineering College (PO), Sivakasi 626005, Virudhunagar, Tamilnadu, India; \
Information Technology Department, Mepco Schlenk Engineering College, Sivakasi 626005, India\
ABSTRACT: In this modern age in which we are living, digital images play a vital role in many application areas. But at the same time the image retouching techniques has also increased which forms a serious threat to the security of digital images. To cope with this problem, the field of digital forensics and investigation has emerged and provided some trust in digital images. In this paper we proposed a technique for image authentication that detects the manipulations that are done in the digital images. In most of the image forgeries such as copy-and-paste forgery, region duplication forgery, image splicing forgery etc basic image operations or manipulations are often involved. Thus if there exists the evidence for basic image alterations in digital images we can say that the image has been altered. This paper aims at detecting the basic image operations such as re-sampling (rotation, rescaling), contrast enhancement and histogram equalization which are often done in forged images. The available interpolation related spectral signature method is used for detecting rotation and rescaling and for estimating parameters such as rotation angle and rescale factors. This rotation/rescaling detection method detects some unaltered images as altered one when the images are JPEG compressed. We have overcome that problem by adding noise in the input images. We have also used the existing fingerprint detection technique for detecting contrast enhancement and histogram equalization. Besides the techniques discussed in the existing method, we identified a unique property for histogram equalization which can help us to differentiate contrast enhancement from histogram equalization. This work is tested in USC-SIPI database which consists of general unaltered images and achieved results with satisfactory accuracy. \'a9 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Contrast enhancement;  Digital forensics;  Digital image forgery;  Fake image;  Histogram equalization;  Interpolation;  Rescaling;  Rotation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 981\
Liu, H., Azadegan, S., Yu, W., Acharya, S., Sistani, A.\
54408890200;6507207716;34973528100;54408127400;54409464900;\
Are we relying too much on forensics tools?\
(2012) Studies in Computational Intelligence, 377, pp. 145-156. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-82255177008&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-23202-2_10&partnerID=40&md5=d5896e04dacbae8181a283338d95a594\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-23202-2_10\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer and Information Sciences, Towson University, Towson, MD 21252, United States\
ABSTRACT: Cell phones are among the most common types of technologies present today and have become an integral part of our daily activities. The latest statis- tics indicate that currently there are over five billion mobile subscribers are in the world and increasingly cell phones are used in criminal activities and confiscated at the crime scenes. Data extracted from these phones are presented as evidence in the court, which has made digital forensics a critical part of law enforcement and legal systems in the world. A number of forensics tools have been developed aiming at extracting and acquiring the ever-increasing amount of data stored in the cell phones; however, one of the main challenges facing the forensics com- munity is to determine the validity, reliability and effectiveness of these tools. To address this issue, we present the performance evaluation of several market- leading forensics tools in the following two ways: the first approach is based on a set of evaluation standards provided by National Institute of Standards and Tech- nology (NIST), and the second approach is a simple and effective anti-forensics technique to measure the resilience of the tools.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android;  Anti-forensics;  Cell phone forensics;  Cell phone forensics tool;  Smart phone\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 982\
Albano, P., Castiglione, A., Cattaneo, G., De Maio, G., De Santis, A.\
54894869300;16027997000;7103222430;49661193400;6602419751;\
On the construction of a false digital alibi on the Android OS\
(2011) Proceedings - 3rd IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Networking and Collaborative Systems, INCoS 2011, art. no. 6132892, pp. 685-690. Cited 25 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84884211494&doi=10.1109%2fINCoS.2011.129&partnerID=40&md5=b2227435dc84ff629d1b319ff6ea5f12\
\
DOI: 10.1109/INCoS.2011.129\
AFFILIATIONS: Dipartimento di Informatica R.M. Capocelli, Universit\'e0 Degli Studi di Salerno, I-84084 Fisciano (SA), Italy\
ABSTRACT: Digital evidence can determine either the conviction or acquittal of a suspect. In the latter case, such information constitutes a digital alibi. It has been recently shown how it is possible to set up a common PC in order to produce digital evidence in an automatic and systematic manner. Such traces are indistinguishable post-mortem from those left by human activity, thus being exploitable to forge a digital alibi. Modern smartphones are becoming more and more similar to PCs, due both to their computational power as well as their capacity to produce digital evidence, local or remote, which can assume a probative value. However, smartphones are still substantially different from common PCs, with OS limitations, lack of tools and so on, thus making it difficult to adopt the same techniques proposed for PCs to forge a digital alibi on a mobile device. In this paper novel techniques to create a false digital alibi on a smartphone equipped with the Android OS are presented. In particular, it is possible to simulate human interaction with a mobile device using a software automation, with the produced traces being indistinguishable post-mortem from those left by a real user. Moreover, it will be shown that advanced computer skills are not required to forge a digital alibi on an Android device, since some of the presented techniques can be easily carried out by non-savvy users. This emphasizes how the probative value of digital evidence should always be evaluated together with traditional investigation techniques. \'a9 2011 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android forensics;  Anti-forensics;  Counter-forensics;  Digital alibi;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Digital investigation;  False alibi;  False digital evidence;  Mobile anti-forensics;  Mobile forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 983 **SELECTED** SID: 55\
Albano, P., Castiglione, A., Cattaneo, G., De Santis, A.\
54894869300;16027997000;7103222430;6602419751;\
A novel anti-forensics technique for the android OS\
(2011) Proceedings - 2011 International Conference on Broadband and Wireless Computing, Communication and Applications, BWCCA 2011, art. no. 6103062, pp. 380-385. Cited 41 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84884211311&doi=10.1109%2fBWCCA.2011.62&partnerID=40&md5=9bfa5d43c4e42ddd0ea5bd87891c8554\
\
DOI: 10.1109/BWCCA.2011.62\
AFFILIATIONS: Dipartimento di Informatica R.M. Capocelli, Universit\'e0 degli Studi di Salerno, I-84084 Fisciano (SA), Italy\
ABSTRACT: In recent years traditional mobile-phones, used only to make calls and send text messages, have evolved into even more versatile and powerful devices (smart phones, tablets, etc.). These devices use a NAND flash memory type to store data, due to it being a memory that has been optimized for the fast updating of data. These flash memory drives usually contain sensitive data that could be a possible danger to the user's privacy. This paper proposes a new anti-forensics technique for mobile devices with the Android OS. The technique makes it possible to modify and erase, securely and selectively, the digital evidence on an Android device without having to use any cryptographic primitives or make any file system changes. While the use of cryptographic primitives or changes to the file system create considerable suspicion in a forensic analysis, the proposed technique uses simple software tools commonly used in *nix-like OSes such as the Android OS. \'a9 2011 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android Anti-Forensics;  Android Forensics;  Android OS;  Anti-Forensics;  Counter-Forensics;  Digital Forensics;  Flash Memory;  Mobile Anti-Forensics;  Mobile Forensics;  NAND;  Sanitization;  Secure Deletion\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 984\
Losavio, M.M., Keeling, D.W.\
19640694300;24758834800;\
Computer forensics and electronic evidence - Failure of competent computer forensic analysis and other computer-related acts as ineffective assistance of counsel\
(2011) 2011 6th IEEE International Workshop on Systematic Approaches to Digital Forensic Engineering, SADFE 2011, art. no. 6159112, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84858732067&doi=10.1109%2fSADFE.2011.6&partnerID=40&md5=256b7742dd8b3183618e6d0731407387\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SADFE.2011.6\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Justice Administration, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY 40293, United States\
ABSTRACT: American defendants have the right to the effective assistance of counsel in criminal prosecutions pursuant to the Sixth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. We examine how the effective assistance of counsel addresses competence and expertise with computer and digital forensics and electronic evidence. There is a floor of competence in modern litigation requiring competence as to the use of computer forensic services, at least in cases where electronic evidence is used. This is an area that is only now developing and which will continue to evolve. Examination of reported United States cases show a significant increase in the referenced use of computer forensics from 2004 through 2010, indicating significant growth in the use of digital forensics. Digital forensics has also been referenced by the courts, thought to a lesser degree. There are also the first reported cases to appear that assert defense counsel was ineffective for not using such counsel, asserting that counsel was not competent in that failure. The numbers of such cases, though, are too small to indicate anything other than the appearance of this concern as a matter required of competent counsel. Nonetheless, it may indicate a growing use and expectation of competence in the use of computer and digital forensic expertise in the analysis of electronic evidence. \'a9 2011 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: computer;  digital;  electronic evidence;  forensic;  ineffective assistance of counsel;  malpractice\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 985\
Al-Kuwari, S., Wolthusen, S.D.\
36239805600;55887434700;\
Fuzzy trace validation: Toward an offline forensic tracking framework\
(2011) 2011 6th IEEE International Workshop on Systematic Approaches to Digital Forensic Engineering, SADFE 2011, art. no. 6159109, . Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84858727521&doi=10.1109%2fSADFE.2011.8&partnerID=40&md5=676f05f3ffbbf05422d88d18af2a9c0e\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SADFE.2011.8\
AFFILIATIONS: Information Security Group, Royal Holloway, University of London, Egham Hill, Egham TW20 0EX, United Kingdom; \
Department of Information and Research, Ministry of Foreign Affair, P.O.Box 22711, Doha, Qatar; \
Norwegian Information Security Laboratory, Gj\'f8vik University College, P.O. Box 191, N-2802 Gj\'f8vik, Norway\
ABSTRACT: Traditional digital forensics has been almost exclusively concerned with extracting digital traces from electronic devices to reconstruct events surrounding a particular crime. However, it might be equally important to extract complementary physical traces to learn not only about the digital activities of the suspects, but also their physical ones. In this paper, we motivate this relatively new line of research that is actually a hybrid between digital and computational forensics, we call it "offline forensic tracking" where mobility traces of an individual is reconstructed from a set of incomplete traces. We propose a reconstruction framework under various mobility models and briefly discuss how it can adopt a fuzzy Bayesian approach to reconstruct the traces. Beside reconstruction, it is also important to validate the available traces which the reconstructed ones will be based on. Therefore, as a second contribution, we show how to carry out trace validation using fuzzy logic. \'a9 2011 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Bayesian;  forensics;  fuzzy;  multi-modal;  trace reconstruction;  tracking\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 986\
Losavio, M.M., Hindi, M., Yampolskiy, R., Keeling, D.W.\
19640694300;54894794300;14122622800;24758834800;\
Boundary conditions for the digital forensic use of electronic evidence and the need for forensic counter-analysis\
(2011) 2011 6th IEEE International Workshop on Systematic Approaches to Digital Forensic Engineering, SADFE 2011, art. no. 6159117, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84858714645&doi=10.1109%2fSADFE.2011.2&partnerID=40&md5=10516d2f3d3918ca764e7f590fd508a8\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SADFE.2011.2\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Justice Administration, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY 40293, United States; \
Department of Computer Engineering and Computer Science, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY 40293, United States\
ABSTRACT: Network and Digital Forensics provide information about electronic activity in new, sometimes unprecedented forms. These new forms offer new, powerful tactical tools for investigations of electronic malfeasance when incorporated under traditional legal regulation of state power, particular that of Fourth Amendment limitations on police searches and seizures under the U.S. Constitution. These tactical tools raise issues of public policy and privacy that may raise concerns about the proper police oversight of civil society. How those issues are resolved will define personal privacy, autonomy and dignity in the 21st digital century. \'a9 2011 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: autonomy;  digital;  dignity;  forensics;  fourth amendment;  network;  privacy;  probably cause\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 987\
Birk, D., Wegener, C.\
22833458100;36241084800;\
Technical issues of forensic investigations in cloud computing environments\
(2011) 2011 6th IEEE International Workshop on Systematic Approaches to Digital Forensic Engineering, SADFE 2011, art. no. 6159124, . Cited 164 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84858712240&doi=10.1109%2fSADFE.2011.17&partnerID=40&md5=67870a1b3011374382869f9e6fecb059\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SADFE.2011.17\
AFFILIATIONS: Ruhr-University Bochum, Horst Goertz Institute for IT Security, Bochum, Germany\
ABSTRACT: Cloud Computing is arguably one of the most discussed information technologies today. It presents many promising technological and economical opportunities. However, many customers remain reluctant to move their business IT infrastructure completely to the cloud. One of their main concerns is Cloud Security and the threat of the unknown. Cloud Service Providers (CSP) encourage this perception by not letting their customers see what is behind their virtual curtain. A seldomly discussed, but in this regard highly relevant open issue is the ability to perform digital investigations. This continues to fuel insecurity on the sides of both providers and customers. Cloud Forensics constitutes a new and disruptive challenge for investigators. Due to the decentralized nature of data processing in the cloud, traditional approaches to evidence collection and recovery are no longer practical. This paper focuses on the technical aspects of digital forensics in distributed cloud environments. We contribute by assessing whether it is possible for the customer of cloud computing services to perform a traditional digital investigation from a technical point of view. Furthermore we discuss possible solutions and possible new methodologies helping customers to perform such investigations. \'a9 2011 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 988\
Halboob, W., Abulaish, M., Alghathbar, K.S.\
26428754700;6505934038;56022895300;\
Quaternary privacy-levels preservation in computer forensics investigation process\
(2011) 2011 International Conference for Internet Technology and Secured Transactions, ICITST 2011, art. no. 6148437, pp. 777-782. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84857477807&partnerID=40&md5=9c737be989c91d73c0bf256a71ac755e\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Center of Excellence in Information Assurance, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia\
ABSTRACT: Privacy preservation and computer forensics investigation are two contradictory information security directions. The privacy preservation principle stress on utmost protection of users privacy as privacy is a right, whereas computer forensics investigation attempts to unearth user data for possible digital evidences hidden within them. Although, a number of research efforts have been directed towards privacy preservation during forensics investigation process and consequently, forensics tools are in existence, most of them employ binary privacy levels, i.e., user privacy is either fully protected or not at all. In this paper, we introduce the concept of quaternary privacy levels and their protection mechanism in computer forensics investigation process. The privacy levels are identified on the basis of different entities and their participation roles during a computer forensics investigation process and represent different granule of privacy that can be enforced by the court of law depending on the nature of crime to be investigated. We also re-define the forensics investigation steps to regard different privacy levels for an investigation process. \'a9 2011 ICITST.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Access Control;  Audit Trail;  Computer Forensics;  Digital Investigation;  Privacy Levels;  Privacy Preservation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 989\
Mahdian, B., Saic, S.\
18434921700;6602460942;\
Image tampering detection using methods based on JPEG compression artifacts: A real-life experiment\
(2011) ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84856751199&doi=10.1145%2f2093698.2093874&partnerID=40&md5=b9758233a3e963d47981f6b3388102d9\
\
DOI: 10.1145/2093698.2093874\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Information Theory and Automation of the ASCR, Pod Vodarenskou vezi 4, Prague, Czech Republic\
ABSTRACT: In this paper we analyze the synergy between forensic image head data consistency analysis and detection of doubles JPEG compression artifacts. We show that image head consistency testing is an effective method for detecting digital images that have been modified. On the other hand, when it is not combined with other forensic methods such as double JPEG detection, a high number of altered photos remained undetected. The same can also be claimed about double JPEG detection. When employed separately without conjunction with other methods, the majority of altered photos remained undetected. In this paper, a quantitative study on this topic is carried out. We show that combining various image forensic methods is a must. \'a9 2011 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: digital forensics;  double JPEG;  EXIF analysis;  image retrieval;  JPEG forensics;  tampering detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 990\
Thing, V.L.L., Chua, T.-W., Cheong, M.-L.\
6507064666;54948633700;54947197300;\
Design of a digital forensics evidence reconstruction system for complex and obscure fragmented file carving\
(2011) Proceedings - 2011 7th International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Security, CIS 2011, art. no. 6128236, pp. 793-797. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84856545986&doi=10.1109%2fCIS.2011.180&partnerID=40&md5=e599ba39b1461423cb7633692062b1b6\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CIS.2011.180\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore, Singapore\
ABSTRACT: Fragmented file carving is an important technique in Digital Forensics to recover files from their fragments in the absence of the file system allocation information. In this paper, we proposed a system design for solving the fragmented file carving problem taking into consideration, conditions of real-life fragmentation scenarios. We developed our evidence reconstruction and recovery system, and carried out experiments, to evaluate the capability in detecting and recovering obscured evidence. The results showed that our system is able to achieve a higher efficiency and accuracy (e.g. 1.5 minutes for the reconstruction of each highly fragmented and deleted (obscured) image in its entirety or 100% recovery), when compared with the commercial recovery system, Adroit Photo Forensics (e.g. 2.8 minutes and 6.3 minutes for a partial image recovery or failure in recovery, respectively). \'a9 2011 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Deleted evidence;  Digital forensics;  File carving;  Fragmentation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 991\
Lin, I.-L., Chao, H.-C., Peng, S.-H.\
15925460000;7202973858;54894872200;\
Research of digital evidence forensics standard operating procedure with comparison and analysis based on smart phone\
(2011) Proceedings - 2011 International Conference on Broadband and Wireless Computing, Communication and Applications, BWCCA 2011, art. no. 6103063, pp. 386-391. Cited 13 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84855826967&doi=10.1109%2fBWCCA.2011.63&partnerID=40&md5=cb9cf96dfba5d2c2d8147510d820a7ca\
\
DOI: 10.1109/BWCCA.2011.63\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of IM, Yuanpei University, Hsinchu 30015, Taiwan; \
Department of IM, Central Police University, Taoyuan, Taiwan; \
Department of CSIE, National Ilan University, Ilan, Taiwan\
ABSTRACT: In the recent years, the technologies develop rapidly. Mobile devices have become very important tools in the modern world. They combine many functions like OS, camera, video, internet, Bluetooth, calendar, address book, application. They contain copious personal information, high mobility and powerful hardware, so the crimes of smart phone increase rapidly. There are many kind of modus operandi increasing. Smart phone has become one of the high technical tools to commit a crime. In view of this, our research will discuss Smart-Phone Digital Evidence Forensics Standard Operating Procedure (Smart-Phone DEFSOP) which was proposed by Prof. I-Long, Lin. Our research will compare with the SOP which was proposed by National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). Finally, we will use trusted third party forensics tools to collect, analyze and examine digital evidences. In order to assist proof capacity of digital evidences in the court, we have to authenticate the " integrity", "consistency" and "precision" of the digital evidences. \'a9 2011 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyber Crime;  Digital Evidence;  Digital Evidence Forensics Standard Operating Procedure (DEFSOP);  Digital Forensics;  Smart Phone\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 992\
Castiglione, A., Cattaneo, G., De Maio, G., De Santis, A.\
16027997000;7103222430;49661193400;6602419751;\
Automatic, selective and secure deletion of digital evidence\
(2011) Proceedings - 2011 International Conference on Broadband and Wireless Computing, Communication and Applications, BWCCA 2011, art. no. 6103064, pp. 392-398. Cited 21 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84855826129&doi=10.1109%2fBWCCA.2011.64&partnerID=40&md5=2f16e88d2048ef713e478dac8f4b9aa8\
\
DOI: 10.1109/BWCCA.2011.64\
AFFILIATIONS: Dipartimento di Informatica R.M. Capocelli, Universit\'e0 degli Studi di Salerno, I-84084 Fisciano (SA), Italy\
ABSTRACT: The secure deletion of sensitive data can improve user privacy in many contexts and, in some extreme circumstances, keeping some information private can determine the life or death of a person. In fact, there are still several countries where freedom of expression is limited by authoritarian regimes, with dissidents being persecuted by their government. Recently, some countries have begun to make an effort to aid these people to communicate in a secure way, thus helping them to gain freedom. In this context, the present work can be a contribution in spreading the free use of Internet and, in general, digital devices. In countries where freedom of expression is persecuted, a dissident who would like to spread (illegal) information by means of the Internet should take into account the need to avoid as many traces as possible of his activity, in order to mislead eventual forensics investigations. In particular, this work introduces a methodology to delete a predetermined data set from a digital device in a secure and fast way, for example, with a single click of the mouse. All the actions required to remove the unwanted evidence can be performed by means of an automation, which is also able to remove traces about its execution and presence on the system. A post-mortem digital forensics analysis of the system will never reveal any information that may be referable to either the deleted data set or automation process. \'a9 2011 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-Forensics;  Automatic Deletion;  Computer Forensics;  Counter-Forensics;  Data Remanence;  Digital Forensics;  Free Communication;  Information Forensics;  Privacy and Freedom;  Right to Privacy;  Secure Deletion;  Selective Deletion;  Wiping\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 993\
Kieseberg, P., Schrittwieser, S., Mulazzani, M., Huber, M., Weippl, E.\
37761500500;36675926500;35849078200;55627877945;8925433900;\
Trees cannot lie: Using data structures for forensics purposes\
(2011) Proceedings - 2011 European Intelligence and Security Informatics Conference, EISIC 2011, art. no. 6061250, pp. 282-285. Cited 13 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-81255172272&doi=10.1109%2fEISIC.2011.18&partnerID=40&md5=3c701233ce85e711738c66bf6315ca13\
\
DOI: 10.1109/EISIC.2011.18\
AFFILIATIONS: SBA-Research, Vienna, Austria\
ABSTRACT: Today's forensic techniques for databases are primarily focused on logging mechanisms and artifacts accessible in the database management systems (DBMSs). While log files, plan caches, cache clock hands, etc. can reveal past transactions, a malicious administrator's modifications might be much more difficult to detect, because he can cover his tracks by also manipulating the log files and flushing transient artifacts such as caches. The internal structure of the data storage inside databases, however, has not yet received much attention from the digital forensic research community. In this paper, we want to show that the diversity of B+-Trees, a widely used data structure in today's database storage engines, enables a deep insight of the database's history. Hidden manipulations such as predated INSERT operations in a logging database can be revealed by our approach. We introduce novel forensic techniques for B+-Trees that are based on characteristics of the tree structure and show how database management systems would have to be modified to even better support tree forensic techniques. \'a9 2011 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: B+ tree;  Database forensics;  InnoDB\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 994\
Lei, Z., Dule, T., Lin, X.\
55890899900;55890889800;17435253300;\
A novel forensics analysis method for evidence extraction from unallocated space\
(2011) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, 56, pp. 53-65. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84885893302&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-23602-0_5&partnerID=40&md5=c1bfc09731f03de4bf2a6c9d8a17b48a\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-23602-0_5\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Ontario Institute of Technology, Oshawa, ON, Canada\
ABSTRACT: Computer forensics has become a vital tool in providing evidence in investigations of computer misuse, attacks against computer systems and more traditional crimes like money laundering and fraud where digital devices are involved. Investigators frequently perform preliminary analysis at the crime scene on these suspect devices to determine the existence of target files like child pornography. Hence, it is crucial to design a tool which is portable and which can perform efficient preliminary analysis. In this paper, we adopt the space efficient data structure of fingerprint hash table for storing the massive forensic data from law enforcement databases in a flash drive and utilize hash trees for fast searches. Then, we apply group testing to identify the fragmentation points of fragmented files and the starting cluster of the next fragment based on statistics on the gap between the fragments. \'a9 2011 ICST Institute for Computer Science, Social Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Bloom Filter;  Computer Forensics;  Fingerprint Hash Table;  Fragmentation;  Fragmentation Point\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 995\
Simon, M.P., Slay, J.\
56007866100;15756115700;\
Recovery of Pidgin chat communication artefacts from physical memory: A pilot test to determine feasibility\
(2011) Proceedings of the 2011 6th International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security, ARES 2011, art. no. 6045931, pp. 183-188. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-80455144705&doi=10.1109%2fARES.2011.33&partnerID=40&md5=a314a263d26f625c606f71ee20282cd8\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ARES.2011.33\
AFFILIATIONS: Advanced Computing Research Centre, School of Computer and Information Science, University of South Australia, Adelaide, Australia\
ABSTRACT: This research describes a study that looks at the feasibility of extracting remnant information about an instant message client from physical memory. The research goal was to gather information about the target application in order to assess the viability of creating methods to recover specific data about its use. The study consists of a formal experiment where the application is used and the physical memory collected at various points. The memory image was then interrogated to assess whether remnant data could be recovered. The study shows that it is feasible to recover data about the target application. \'a9 2011 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Digital evidence;  Digital investigation;  Electronic evidence;  Google chat;  RAM forensics;  Tor;  Volatile memory forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 996\
Osborne, G., Slay, J.\
22836220800;15756115700;\
Digital forensics infovis: An implementation of a process for visualisation of digital evidence\
(2011) Proceedings of the 2011 6th International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security, ARES 2011, art. no. 6045963, pp. 196-201. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-80455144621&doi=10.1109%2fARES.2011.36&partnerID=40&md5=ba908cc4412da300236557acf561cc94\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ARES.2011.36\
AFFILIATIONS: University of South Australia, Computer and Information Science, Adelaide, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Infovis enables us to combine the language of the eyes with the language of the mind, empowering all manner of people to be data detectives. Formalised processes for the integration of infovis techniques within the digital forensics domain are few and far between. One such process, the Explore, Investigate and Correlate process has been developed and provides a series of phases and key principles on which to build systems that integrate infovis techniques within the digital forensics investigative workflow. This paper presents refinements to this process and a proof-of-concept implementation. How the implementation achieves the goals of the process, the techniques it uses and how it helps to reduce information overload within the digital forensics domain are examined. \'a9 2011 Crown Copyright.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Component;  Digital forensics;  Implementation;  Infovis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 997\
Li, Q., Sahin, B., Chang, E.-C., Thing, V.L.L.\
55703357500;57213496192;7401837454;6507064666;\
Content based JPEG fragmentation point detection\
(2011) Proceedings - IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo, art. no. 6011883, . Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-80155129767&doi=10.1109%2fICME.2011.6011883&partnerID=40&md5=ab1484770ed2931f81bf5f0b739a35a0\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICME.2011.6011883\
AFFILIATIONS: Cryptography and Security Department, Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore, Singapore; \
School of Computing, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore\
ABSTRACT: In the forensics analysis of raw evidence data, fragmentation point detection is crucial to differentiate fragments of evidence and identify potentially corrupted data. This need is even more prominent for JPEG images since the chance is high that an erroneous data block passes a normal JPEG decoder without triggering any errors. Therefore, it is important to verify the content of the decoded image data to determine if fragmentation and/or corruption has occurred. In this paper, we propose three different techniques for the detection of fragmentation point based on the image contents, as well as a detector built by combining these methods. We evaluate the effectiveness of these techniques and the combined detector by implementing them on a standard JPEG decoder and testing them on more than 2000 fragmented images generated from over 1200 JPEG photos. \'a9 2011 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  fragmentation point detection;  JPEG\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 998\
Okolica, J.S., Peterson, G.L.\
14038127200;12242376200;\
Windows driver memory analysis: A reverse engineering methodology\
(2011) Computers and Security, 30 (8), pp. 770-779. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-80955126064&doi=10.1016%2fj.cose.2011.08.001&partnerID=40&md5=cbd839717cb17ecca9f1ca7d2f931b45\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.cose.2011.08.001\
AFFILIATIONS: Air Force Institute of Technology, Graduate School of Engineering and Management, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 2950 Hobson Way, Wright Patterson AFB, OH 45433, United States\
ABSTRACT: In a digital forensics examination, the capture and analysis of volatile data provides significant information on the state of the computer at the time of seizure. Memory analysis is a premier method of discovering volatile digital forensic information. While much work has been done in extracting forensic artifacts from Windows kernel structures, less focus has been paid to extracting information from Windows drivers. There are two reasons for this: (1) source code for one version of the Windows kernel (but not associated drivers) is available for educational use and (2) drivers are generally called asynchronously and contain no exported functions. Therefore, finding the handful of driver functions of interest out of the thousands of candidates makes reverse code engineering problematic at best. Developing a methodology to minimize the effort of analyzing these drivers, finding the functions of interest, and extracting the data structures of interest is highly desirable. This paper provides two contributions. First, it describes a general methodology for reverse code engineering of Windows drivers memory structures. Second it applies the methodology to tcpip.sys, a Windows driver that controls network connectivity. The result is the extraction from tcpip.sys of the data structures needed to determine current network connections and listeners from the 32 and 64 bit versions of Windows Vista and Windows 7. Manipulation (DKOM), tcpip.sys, Windows 7, Windows Vista. 2000 MSC: 60, 490. \'a9 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Direct Kernel Object Manipulation (DKOM);  Reverse engineering;  tcpip.sys;  Windows 7;  Windows Vista\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 999\
Hildebrandt, M., Kiltz, S., Grossmann, I., Vielhauer, C.\
37014624400;23397542600;53864968200;6602138719;\
Convergence of digital and traditional forensic disciplines: A first exemplary study for digital dactyloscopy\
(2011) MM and Sec'11 - Proceedings of the 2011 ACM SIGMM Multimedia and Security Workshop, pp. 1-8. Cited 12 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-80054784054&doi=10.1145%2f2037252.2037254&partnerID=40&md5=fcff7f2f264575d3face6df3c1ab5e85\
\
DOI: 10.1145/2037252.2037254\
AFFILIATIONS: Otto-von-Guericke University of Magdeburg, Dept. of Computer Science, Research Group Multimedia and Security, PO Box 4120, 39016 Magdeburg, Germany; \
State Police Headquarters Saxony-Anhalt, Luebecker Str. 53, 39124 Magdeburg, Germany; \
Brandenburg University of Applied Sciences, Department of Informatics and Media, PO Box 2132, 14737 Brandenburg, Germany\
ABSTRACT: Traditional forensic disciplines get increasingly digitized. This allows for new investigations and often provides more details for each trace. Due to this digitalization, digital and digitized forensic disciplines have very similar courses of action and requirements. Therefore, we introduce a generic process model, which can be easily adapted for different purposes. Here, we show an exemplary study for the digital dactyloscopy as part of digitized forensics. The digitalization effort can potentially allow for different investigations of the very same trace, is possible because the original trace is acquired non-destructively. \'a9 2011 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: digital forensics;  digitized forensics;  forensics;  IT-forensics;  latent fingerprints;  legal aspects;  process model\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1000\
Jiang, Z.L., Fang, J.-B., Hui, L.C.K., Yiu, S., Chow, K.P., Sheng, M.-M.\
24344329800;36132767400;8905728300;7003282240;7202180751;54407420400;\
K-Dimensional hashing scheme for hard disk integrity verification in computer forensics\
(2011) Journal of Zhejiang University: Science C, 12 (10), pp. 809-818. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-80755159526&doi=10.1631%2fjzus.C1000425&partnerID=40&md5=c9d0d1c57f1c5501c8bb1118483dd145\
\
DOI: 10.1631/jzus.C1000425\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science and Technology, Harbin Institute of Technology, Shenzhen Graduate School, Shenzhen 518055, China; \
Department of Computer Science, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Hong Kong\
ABSTRACT: Verifying the integrity of a hard disk is an important concern in computer forensics, as the law enforcement party needs to confirm that the data inside the hard disk have not been modified during the investigation. A typical approach is to compute a single chained hash value of all sectors in a specific order. However, this technique loses the integrity of all other sectors even if only one of the sectors becomes a bad sector occasionally or is modified intentionally. In this paper we propose a k-dimensional hashing scheme, kD for short, to distribute sectors into a kD space, and to calculate multiple hash values for sectors in k dimensions as integrity evidence. Since the integrity of the sectors can be verified depending on any hash value calculated using the sectors, the probability to verify the integrity of unchanged sectors can be high even with bad/modified sectors in the hard disk. We show how to efficiently implement this kD hashing scheme such that the storage of hash values can be reduced while increasing the chance of an unaffected sector to be verified successfully. Experimental results of a 3D scheme show that both the time for computing the hash values and the storage for the hash values are reasonable. \'a9 2011 Journal of Zhejiang University Science Editorial Office and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Digital evidence;  Hard disk integrity;  k-Dimensional hashing\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1001\
Jozwiak, I., Kedziora, M., Melinska, A.\
55916900100;49963961800;50861736600;\
Theoretical and practical aspects of encrypted containers detection - Digital forensics approach\
(2011) Advances in Intelligent and Soft Computing, 97, pp. 75-85. Cited 12 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-80053015727&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-21393-9_6&partnerID=40&md5=3c405f2794fe5e833cb6bd7d5b7fef4c\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-21393-9_6\
AFFILIATIONS: Wroclaw University of Technology, Wroclaw, Poland\
ABSTRACT: This paper covers problem of detecting encrypted files in evidence data during digital forensics investigations. We present comparison of popular detection methods like file signature and extension analysis, metadata analysis and searching operation system artifacts. We present research on theoretical and practical use of some indicators that can suggest encryption used like entropy, chi-square test, Arithmetic Mean and Monte Carlo Value for Pi. \'a9 2011 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1002\
Rosenblum, N., Zhu, X., Miller, B.P.\
25926610300;55696704600;7403946215;\
Who wrote this code? Identifying the authors of program binaries\
(2011) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 6879 LNCS, pp. 172-189. Cited 51 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-80052990651&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-23822-2_10&partnerID=40&md5=9f7464fda7fbe9ae102a343328fd385c\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-23822-2_10\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, United States\
ABSTRACT: Program authorship attribution - identifying a programmer based on stylistic characteristics of code - has practical implications for detecting software theft, digital forensics, and malware analysis. Authorship attribution is challenging in these domains where usually only binary code is available; existing source code-based approaches to attribution have left unclear whether and to what extent programmer style survives the compilation process. Casting authorship attribution as a machine learning problem, we present a novel program representation and techniques that automatically detect the stylistic features of binary code. We apply these techniques to two attribution problems: identifying the precise author of a program, and finding stylistic similarities between programs by unknown authors. Our experiments provide strong evidence that programmer style is preserved in program binaries. \'a9 2011 Springer-Verlag.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1003\
Cao, G., Zhao, Y., Ni, R., Kot, A.C.\
57193213735;35304414700;55632437300;35588578100;\
Unsharp masking sharpening detection via overshoot artifacts analysis\
(2011) IEEE Signal Processing Letters, 18 (10), art. no. 5983401, pp. 603-606. Cited 76 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-80052396955&doi=10.1109%2fLSP.2011.2164791&partnerID=40&md5=9e1e1d1e16177092c01be03b3e238676\
\
DOI: 10.1109/LSP.2011.2164791\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Information Science, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, China; \
Beijing Key Laboratory of Advanced Information Science and Network Technology, Beijing 100044, China; \
School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, Singapore\
ABSTRACT: In this letter, we propose a new method in detecting unsharp masking (USM) sharpening operation in digital images. Overshoot artifacts are found to occur around side-planar edges in the sharpened images. Such artifacts, measured by a sharpening detector, can serve as a rather unique feature for identifying the previous performance of sharpening operation. Test results on photograph images with regard to various sharpening operators show the effectiveness of our proposed method. \'a9 2006 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  image sharpening;  overshoot artifacts;  unsharp masking\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1004\
Lin, I.-L., Yen, Y.-S., Chang, A.\
15925460000;8890078700;49662896900;\
A study on digital forensics standard operation procedure for wireless cybercrime\
(2011) Proceedings - 2011 5th International Conference on Innovative Mobile and Internet Services in Ubiquitous Computing, IMIS 2011, art. no. 5976271, pp. 543-548. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-80052386301&doi=10.1109%2fIMIS.2011.58&partnerID=40&md5=0ce1ff50fb881e8ec5885466b899d88c\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IMIS.2011.58\
AFFILIATIONS: Central Police University, Department of Information Management, Taoyuan, Taiwan; \
Fo Guang University, Department of Applied Informatics, Ilan, Taiwan\
ABSTRACT: With the rapid development of information technology, computer and networking, it has brought convenience to the whole world, it has changed the way we live our daily life, interactions with people are no longer just face to face, but can be transmitted through the use of internet. With the frequent use of internet technology, Cyber crime became the new threat of our society. Amongst all advance technology, wireless network is the number one threat, with high mobility, no wired required and easy installation, it's the most common way to access the internet these days. Wireless signals travels through air rather than a traditional wired network which can be much more vulnerable for those who has intentions pursuing illegal activities. With the increases growth of internet users and the development of new technologies, current legislations and security has faced difficulties in trying to keep up, hence Cyber crime numbers are increased rapidly. Although wireless Cyber crime is a new threat, but with the detail tracking and investigation effort, ultimately the professional will find some kind of digital evidence, and its often required to identify and preserve in order to be recognized and restoring the truth, hence the establishment of trainings in digital evidence through to forensic requires immediate implementation, with increase of the standards and knowledge it will strength the competence and credibility of the forensics unit's professional ability in assistance to fight again all crime. \'a9 2011 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: cybercrime;  digital evidence;  digital forensics;  wireless cybercrime\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1005\
De Santis, A., Castiglione, A., Cattaneo, G., De Maio, G., Ianulardo, M.\
6602419751;16027997000;7103222430;49661193400;55856621100;\
Automated construction of a false digital alibi\
(2011) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 6908 LNCS, pp. 359-373. Cited 21 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84884211521&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-23300-5_28&partnerID=40&md5=d33aeb4de84573e1bc958379d2833b90\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-23300-5_28\
AFFILIATIONS: Dipartimento di Informatica R.M. Capocelli, Universit\'e0 degli Studi di Salerno, Fisciano, SA I-84084, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Recent legal cases have shown that digital evidence is becoming more widely used in court proceedings (by defense, accusation, public prosecutor, etc.). Digital tracks can be left on computers, phones, digital cameras as well as third party servers belonging to Internet Service Providers (ISPs), telephone providers and companies that provide services via Internet such as YouTube, Facebook and Gmail. This work highlights the possibility to set up a false digital alibi in a fully automatic way without any human intervention. A forensic investigation on the digital evidence produced cannot establish whether such traces have been produced through either human activity or by an automated tool. These considerations stress the difference between digital and physical - namely traditional - evidence. Essentially, digital evidence should be considered relevant only if supported by evidence collected using traditional investigation techniques. The results of this work should be considered by anyone involved in a Digital Forensics investigation, due to it demonstrating that court rulings should not be based only on digital evidence, with it always being correlated to additional information provided by the various disciplines of Forensics Sciences. \'a9 2011 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-Forensics;  Automated Alibi;  Counter-Forensics;  Digital Alibi;  Digital Evidence;  Digital Forensics;  Digital Investigation;  False Alibi;  False Digital Alibi;  False Digital Evidence\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1006\
Sato, M., Yamauchi, T.\
49662264200;36717162100;\
VMBLS: Virtual machine based logging scheme for prevention of tampering and loss\
(2011) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 6908 LNCS, pp. 176-190. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-80052329753&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-23300-5_14&partnerID=40&md5=05fc833cd1a0de93a26d2ad89e6d0411\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-23300-5_14\
AFFILIATIONS: Graduate School of Natural Science and Technology, Okayama University, 3-1-1 Tsushima-naka, Kita-ku, Okayama 700-8530, Japan\
ABSTRACT: Logging information is necessary in order to understand a computer's behavior. However, there is a possibility that attackers will delete logs to hide the evidence of their attacking and cheating. Moreover, various problems might cause the loss of logging information. In homeland security, the plans for counter terrorism are based on data. The reliability of the data is depends on that of data collector. Because the reliability of the data collector is ensured by logs, the protection of it is important problem. To address these issues, we propose a system to prevent tampering and loss of logging information using a virtual machine monitor (VMM). In this system, logging information generated by the operating system (OS) and application program (AP) working on the target virtual machine (VM) is gathered by the VMM without any modification of the OS. The security of the logging information is ensured by its isolation from the VM. In addition, the isolation and multiple copying of logs can help in the detection of tampering. \'a9 2011 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: digital forensics;  Log;  security;  virtual machine monitor;  virtualization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1007\
Mohamad, K.M., Patel, A., Deris, M.M.\
35275818400;7403523963;6507331989;\
Carving JPEG images and thumbnails using image pattern matching\
(2011) ISCI 2011 - 2011 IEEE Symposium on Computers and Informatics, art. no. 5958888, pp. 78-83. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-80052122480&doi=10.1109%2fISCI.2011.5958888&partnerID=40&md5=1829424875ee13ca3f1b0072ddccaa7f\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISCI.2011.5958888\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, Universiti Tun Hussein Onn Malaysia, 86400 Parit Raja, Batu Pahat, Johor, Malaysia; \
Department of Computer Science, Faculty of Information Science and Technology, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, 3600 Bangi, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia; \
Faculty of Computing Information Systems and Mathematics, Kingston University, Penrhyn Road, Kingston upon Thames KT1 2EE, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics is a branch of forensic science to monitor, analyze and examine digital media or devices. File carving is the art of recovering files from digital data storage with corrupted or unavailable file system metadata and it is very useful in a digital forensics investigation. However, earlier generation file carver like Scalpel and Foremost only deals with non-fragmented files. We proposed an automatic image and thumbnail carving tool called myKarve which is useful in digital forensics investigation and presentation of evidential information that is able to carve contiguous and linearly fragmented images caused by garbage. myKarve is designed on a new architecture to deal with thumbnail and fragmentation issues. The tool is tested with images obtained from the Internet. myKarve is found to be a more efficient automated image and thumbnail carver compared to the original Scalpel with the following advantages: detects more headers using validated headers; carves more images and thumbnails by using the newly introduced image patterns; and is able to discard garbage from linearly fragmented images. The results from myKarve are invaluable in the field work of digital forensic analysis that can produce technical evidence against cybercrime activities to prosecution cases. \'a9 2011 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: digital forensics;  file carving;  hidden information;  myKarve;  side channels\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1008\
Stamm, M.C., Liu, K.J.R.\
34870520200;7404200118;\
Anti-forensics of digital image compression\
(2011) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 6 (3 PART 2), art. no. 5720310, pp. 1050-1065. Cited 163 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-80051605162&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2011.2119314&partnerID=40&md5=a52ae31719b776f239318d1cc3aa83ec\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2011.2119314\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742, United States\
ABSTRACT: As society has become increasingly reliant upon digital images to communicate visual information, a number of forensic techniques have been developed to verify the authenticity of digital images. Amongst the most successful of these are techniques that make use of an image's compression history and its associated compression fingerprints. Little consideration has been given, however, to anti-forensic techniques capable of fooling forensic algorithms. In this paper, we present a set of anti-forensic techniques designed to remove forensically significant indicators of compression from an image. We do this by first developing a generalized framework for the design of anti-forensic techniques to remove compression fingerprints from an image's transform coefficients. This framework operates by estimating the distribution of an image's transform coefficients before compression, then adding anti-forensic dither to the transform coefficients of a compressed image so that their distribution matches the estimated one. We then use this framework to develop anti-forensic techniques specifically targeted at erasing compression fingerprints left by both JPEG and wavelet-based coders. Additionally, we propose a technique to remove statistical traces of the blocking artifacts left by image compression algorithms that divide an image into segments during processing. Through a series of experiments, we demonstrate that our anti-forensic techniques are capable of removing forensically detectable traces of image compression without significantly impacting an image's visual quality. Furthermore, we show how these techniques can be used to render several forms of image tampering such as double JPEG compression, cut-and-paste image forgery, and image origin falsification undetectable through compression-history-based forensic means. \'a9 2011 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: anti-forensic dither;  Anti-forensics;  digital forensics;  image compression;  JPEG compression\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1009 **SELECTED** SID: 56\
Goh, W., Leong, P.C., Yeo, C.K.\
35174652500;7005927872;7102545548;\
A plausibly-deniable, practical trusted platform module based anti-forensics client-server system\
(2011) IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, 29 (7), art. no. 5963158, pp. 1377-1391. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-80051495432&doi=10.1109%2fJSAC.2011.110805&partnerID=40&md5=9186e635d2fc89cbcc8678fd9da43c36\
\
DOI: 10.1109/JSAC.2011.110805\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Nanyang Avenue, S 639798, Singapore, Singapore\
ABSTRACT: A Trusted Platform Module (TPM) contains a unique identity and provides a range of security functions. This paper demonstrates a novel approach of using a TPM-enabled computer in a client-server system to hinder forensic examination. The prime motivation for this is to highlight the implications of such TPM-based approach in digital forensics for law enforcement agents. The system allows for data confidentiality, plausible deniability, and hiding of traces that data containing incriminating information was present on the client. The server will attest the client before allowing it to submit or receive encrypted data, and encrypted data containing incriminating information can only be decrypted 1) by the encrypting client, and 2) if and only if the encrypting client's platform configuration matches that during encryption. The client's state can always be established via measurement results, and they cannot be tampered to fake attestation. \'a9 2006 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: anti-forensics;  information confidentiality;  plausible deniability;  trusted platform module\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1010\
Poisel, R., Tjoa, S.\
56707202800;19934750700;\
Forensics investigations of multimedia data: A review of the state-of-the-art\
(2011) Proceedings - 6th International Conference on IT Security Incident Management and IT Forensics, IMF 2011, art. no. 5931112, pp. 48-61. Cited 40 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-79960728203&doi=10.1109%2fIMF.2011.14&partnerID=40&md5=3b7158833876b7cca1cbe9dcdcd27fae\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IMF.2011.14\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of IT Security Research, St. Poelten University of Applied Sciences, St. Poelten, Austria\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics is one of the cornerstones to investigate criminal activities such as fraud, computer security breaches or the distribution of illegal content. The importance and relevance of this research fields attracted various research institutes leading to substantial progress in the area of digital investigations. One essential piece of evidence is multimedia data. For this reason this paper provides an overview of the state-of-the-art in the forensic investigation of multimedia data, the relationship between the various research fields and further potential research activities. \'a9 2011 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Content classification;  Content forgery;  Data recovery approaches for multimedia files;  Digital Forensics;  Environment classification;  Fragment Identification;  Multimedia Data;  Source identification;  State-of-the-Art;  Steganography and Steganalysis;  Survey\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1011\
Van Den Bos, J., Van Der Storm, T.\
42162324700;23399139300;\
Bringing domain-specific languages to digital forensics\
(2011) Proceedings - International Conference on Software Engineering, pp. 671-680. Cited 21 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-79959861136&doi=10.1145%2f1985793.1985887&partnerID=40&md5=8935338891d4b9f9913aa084dbc7664a\
\
DOI: 10.1145/1985793.1985887\
AFFILIATIONS: Netherlands Forensic Institute, Laan van Ypenburg 6, 2497 GB, Den Haag, Netherlands; \
Centrum Wiskunde and Informatica, Science Park 123, 1098 XG, Amsterdam, Netherlands\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics investigations often consist of analyzing large quantities of data. The software tools used for analyzing such data are constantly evolving to cope with a multiplicity of versions and variants of data formats. This process of customization is time consuming and error prone. To improve this situation we present Derric, a domain-specific language (DSL) for declaratively specifying data structures. This way, the specification of structure is separated from data processing. The resulting architecture encourages customization and facilitates reuse. It enables faster development through a division of labour between investigators and software engineers. We have performed an initial evaluation of Derric by constructing a data recovery tool. This so-called carver has been automatically derived from a declarative description of the structure of JPEG files. We compare it to existing carvers, and show it to be in the same league both with respect to recovered evidence, and runtime performance. \'a9 2011 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: data description languages;  digital forensics;  domain-specific languages;  model-driven engineering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1012\
Chu, H.-C., Deng, D.-J., Chao, H.-C.\
35172482900;25031400400;7202973858;\
Potential cyberterrorism via a multimedia smart phone based on a web 2.0 application via ubiquitous Wi-Fi access points and the corresponding digital forensics\
(2011) Multimedia Systems, 17 (4), pp. 341-349. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-79960054187&doi=10.1007%2fs00530-010-0216-7&partnerID=40&md5=186500bfde3d60c24e6edb9f566ff8ce\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s00530-010-0216-7\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of International Business, National Taichung University of Education, Taichung, Taiwan; \
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, National Changhua University of Education, Changhua, Taiwan; \
Institute of Computer Science and Information Engineering, National Ilan University, Ilan, Taiwan; \
Department of Electrical Engineering, National Dong Hwa University, Hualien, Taiwan\
ABSTRACT: Cyberterrorism has become a hotly debated research issue in the past decades because of the convergence of mobile computing powers and the fledging multimedia communication computing capabilities. Cyberterrorism is the exploitation of computer network tools to incur malfunction or shut down critical infrastructures with several keyboard punches, which is dramatically different from traditional terrorism. Due to the ubiquitous multimedia communication tools, they have radically transformed the ways concerning data transmission. Unfortunately, it also incurs unprecedented opportunities for committing cyber crimes that we were not able to foresee two decades ago. Undoubtedly, the mushrooming proliferation of mobile phones spectacularly triggers the information security leakage while most people heavily rely on mobile phones for daily communication. As cybercrime or cyberterrorism surges, digital forensics (DF) of mobile communication devices still enormously lags behind than computer forensics. Hence, in this research paper, we provide a hypothetical case review concerning the DF of a potential cyberterrorist attack that was triggered by a mobile multimedia smart phone utilizing a popular web 2.0 application program via ubiquitous Wi-Fi access points. The corresponding DF of the mobile device was conducted in a step-by-step manner as well as the crime scene reconstruction based on the digital evidence collected, analyzed, and preserved. \'a9 2010 Springer-Verlag.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyberterrorism;  Digital forensics;  Mobile multimedia computing and embedded systems;  Web 2.0\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1013\
Dahbur, K., Mohammad, B.\
57225895868;39161693500;\
The anti-forensics challenge\
(2011) ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, art. no. 14, . Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-79957977512&doi=10.1145%2f1980822.1980836&partnerID=40&md5=edab5028da20294b5b07225bd4e61839\
\
DOI: 10.1145/1980822.1980836\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Engineering and Computing Sciences, New York Institute of Technology, Amman, Jordan\
ABSTRACT: Computer and Network Forensics has emerged as a new field in IT that is aimed at acquiring and analyzing digital evidence for the purpose of solving cases that involve the use, or more accurately misuse, of computer systems. Many scientific techniques, procedures, and technological tools have been evolved and effectively applied in this field. On the opposite side, Anti-Forensics has recently surfaced as a field that aims at circumventing the efforts and objectives of the field of computer and network forensics. The purpose of this paper is to highlight the challenges introduced by Anti-Forensics, explore the various Anti-Forensics mechanisms, tools and techniques, provide a coherent classification for them, and discuss thoroughly their effectiveness. Moreover, this paper will highlight the challenges seen in implementing effective countermeasures against these techniques. Finally, a set of recommendations are presented with further seen research opportunities. \'a9 2010 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer Anti-Forensics (CAF);  Computer Forensics (CF);  Data hiding;  Digital evidence\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1014\
Cao, Y., Gao, T., Fan, L., Yang, Q.\
55413875700;56265066300;36805621700;36515930800;\
A robust detection algorithm fosr region duplication in digital images\
(2011) International Journal of Digital Content Technology and its Applications, 5 (6), pp. 95-103. Cited 12 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-79960005370&doi=10.4156%2fjdcta.vol5.issue6.12&partnerID=40&md5=8e4641cbbc1bea457c4215f736a19d90\
\
DOI: 10.4156/jdcta.vol5.issue6.12\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Information Technical Science, Nankai University, Tianjin, 300071, China; \
College of Software, Information Security Technology Lab, Nankai University, Tianjin, 300071, China\
ABSTRACT: With the availability of the powerful editing software and sophisticated digital cameras, regionduplication is becoming more and more popular in image manipulation where part of an image ispasted to another location to conceal undesirable objects. In this paper, we present an efficient androbust approach to detect such specific artifact. Firstly, the original image is divided into fixed-sizeblocks, and discrete cosine transform (DCT) is applied to each block, then the DCT coefficientsrepresent each block. Secondly, each cosine transformed block is represented by a circle block andfour features are extracted to reduce the dimension of each block. Finally, the feature vectors arelexicographically sorted, and duplicated image blocks will be matched by a preset threshold value. Inorder to make the algorithm more robust, some parameters are proposed to remove the wrong similarblocks. Experimental results show that our proposed scheme is not only robust to multiple copy-moveforgery, but also to blurring or nosing adding and with low computational complexity.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Circle block;  Copy-move forgery;  Digital forensic;  Region duplication detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1015\
Lu, W., Sun, W., Chung, F.-L., Lu, H.\
56900218900;57188643306;7202260647;8943716200;\
Revealing digital fakery using multiresolution decomposition and higher order statistics\
(2011) Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence, 24 (4), pp. 666-672. Cited 14 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-79953662386&doi=10.1016%2fj.engappai.2011.01.002&partnerID=40&md5=80197e31ee12b97f4dffd7b55c7971d5\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.engappai.2011.01.002\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information Science and Technology, Guangdong Key Laboratory of Information Security Technology, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510006, China; \
Department of Computing, Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hung Hom, Kowloon, Hong Kong; \
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200240, China\
ABSTRACT: With the advance of digitization and digital processing techniques, digital images are now easy to create and manipulate, and leave no clues of artificial evidence. There are some known digital fakery for images, e.g., computer graphics (CGs) and digital forgeries. As valid records of natural world, natural images, i.e., photographic images, are no longer believable. In this paper, a detection scheme for natural images and fake images is proposed. Features are first extracted using multiresolution decomposition and higher order local autocorrelations (HLACs). The support vector machines (SVMs) are then used to differentiate the natural and fake images. Because the inner product between features can be obtained directly without computing features, it can be integrated into SVM, and the computation complexity is decreased. Experiments show that the proposed detection scheme is effective, demonstrating that the proposed statistical features can model the differences between natural images and fake images. \'a9 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Classification;  Digital fakery;  Digital forensics;  DWT;  High order autocorrelations\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1016\
Goljan, M., Fridrich, J., Chen, M.\
6602851525;35553538200;8560788900;\
Defending against fingerprint-copy attack in sensor-based camera identification\
(2011) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 6 (1), art. no. 5667057, pp. 227-236. Cited 86 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-79951834941&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2010.2099220&partnerID=40&md5=4da6cb640cf2672322a8287bab2d5418\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2010.2099220\
AFFILIATIONS: Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, Binghamton University, Binghamton, NY 13902, United States; \
Jadak LLC, Syracuse, NY 13212, United States\
ABSTRACT: Sensor photoresponse nonuniformity has been proposed as a unique identifier (fingerprint) for various forensic tasks, including digital-camera ballistics in which an image is matched to the specific camera that took it. The problem investigated here concerns the situation when an adversary estimates the sensor fingerprint from a set of images and superimposes it onto an image from a different camera to frame an innocent victim. This paper proposes a reliable method for detecting such fake fingerprints under rather mild and general assumptions about the adversary's activity and the means available to the victim. The proposed method is subjected to experiments to evaluate its reliability as well as its limitations. The conclusion that can be made from this study is that planting a sensor fingerprint in an image without leaving a trace is significantly more difficult than previously thought. \'a9 2010 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Camera identification;  counter-forensics;  digital forensics;  photoresponse nonuniformity (PRNU);  sensor fingerprint\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1017\
Wang, S., Yang, B., Niu, X.\
54911241600;7404472502;7103278179;\
Hiding traces of the inconsistent block artifact grid in jpeg images\
(2011) ICIC Express Letters, Part B: Applications, 2 (1), pp. 189-194. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-79251512926&partnerID=40&md5=9d0d525a43305085b83d494772f56d14\
\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science and Technology, Harbin Institute of Technology, No. 92, West Da-Zhi Street, Harbin 150080, China\
ABSTRACT: With the development of multimedia application, the image tampering meth ods should be improved to promote the progress of digital forensic technique. In the forgery JPEG image created by Copy-Paste operation, the DCT block artifact consistency is bro ken. The forgery could be detected and located by extracting the incoherence of DCT block artifact grid (BAG). To remove the fragility of Copy-Paste operation, we proposed a novel algorithm to eliminate the inconsistencies of BAG in the forgery image. This method is based on the detail-preserving filter. After filtering, the DCT block artifact grid become consistent and the image quality is preserved. \'a9 2011 ISSN 2185-2766.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Detail-preserving filter;  Digital forensics;  Image tampering;  Inconsistencies of BAG\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1018\
Bruna, A.R., Messina, G., Battiato, S.\
6603499243;35590415000;6603989025;\
Crop detection through blocking artefacts analysis\
(2011) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 6978 LNCS, pp. 650-659. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85108984164&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-24085-0_66&partnerID=40&md5=8ba47ff877a5f080dc330bb5a2aed745\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-24085-0_66\
AFFILIATIONS: Image Processing Laboratory, Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, University of Catania, Viale A. Doria 6, Catania, 95125, Italy\
ABSTRACT: In this paper we propose a new method to detect cropped images by analyzing the blocking artefacts produced by a previous block based compression techniques such as JPEG and MPEG family that are the most used compression standards for still images and video sequences. It is useful for image forgery detection, in particular when an image has been cropped. The proposed solution is very fast compared to the previous art and the experimental results show that it is quite reliable also when the compression ratio is low, i.e. the blocking artefact is not visible. \'a9 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2011.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Crop and paste technique;  DCT blocking artefacts analysis;  Image forensic;  Tampered images\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1019\
Fouche, M.-A., Olivier, M.\
54883801000;7101741068;\
Steganographic techniques for hiding data in SWF files\
(2011) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 361, pp. 245-255. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84958744968&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-24212-0_19&partnerID=40&md5=22124862865f3da7c78d0e82c0daf549\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-24212-0_19\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: Small Web Format (SWF) or Flash files are widely used on the Internet to provide Rich Internet Applications (RIAs). This makes SWF files an excellent candidate for disseminating hidden data. However, digital forensic investigators are unable to detect and extract the hidden data because limited information is available about the techniques used to hide data in SWF files. This paper investigates several data insertion techniques for hiding data in SWF files. The techniques include appending data to an SWF file, adding an extra Metadata tag, creating a custom Definition tag, and replacing fill bits with hidden data. Experimental results obtained with a simple SWF (version 10) file are used to evaluate the effectiveness of the data hiding techniques and identify the artifacts that remain. \'a9 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing 2011.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Flash files;  Small web format;  Steganography\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1020\
Marrington, A., Baggili, I., Mohay, G., Clark, A.\
13410675800;37261105300;6602866890;57214108644;\
CAT detect (computer activity timeline detection): A tool for detecting inconsistency in computer activity timelines\
(2011) DFRWS 2011 Annual Conference, 8, pp. S52-S61. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84864589673&partnerID=40&md5=504b6685c13c985b2a923f460153d0bf\
\
AFFILIATIONS: College of Information Technology, Zayed University, United Arab Emirates; \
Information Security Institute, Queensland University of Technology, Australia\
ABSTRACT: The construction of timelines of computer activity is a part of many digital investigations. These timelines of events are composed of traces of historical activity drawn from system logs and potentially from evidence of events found in the computer file system. A potential problem with the use of such information is that some of it may be inconsistent and contradictory thus compromising its value. This work introduces a software tool (CAT Detect) for the detection of inconsistency within timelines of computer activity. We examine the impact of deliberate tampering through experiments conducted with our prototype software tool. Based on the results of these experiments, we discuss techniques which can be employed to deal with such temporal inconsistencies. \'a9 2011 Marrington, Baggili, Mohay & Clark. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: CAT detect;  Event correlation;  Happened-before;  Precondition event;  Timeline inconsistency\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1021 **SELECTED** SID: 57\
Shanmugam, K., Powell, R., Owens, T.\
55213952700;7402348225;7101751105;\
An Approach for Validation of Digital Anti-Forensic Evidence\
(2011) Information Security Journal, 20 (4-5), pp. 219-230. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84860863796&doi=10.1080%2f19393555.2011.604667&partnerID=40&md5=740fec6246edbbf14a94f47a5a954e2e\
\
DOI: 10.1080/19393555.2011.604667\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Centre, Brunel University, Kingston Lane, Uxbridge, Middlesex, UB8 3PH, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: e-crime is increasing and e-criminals are becoming better at masking their activities. The task of forensic data analysis is becoming more difficult and a systematic approach towards evidence validation is necessary. With no standard validation framework, the skills and interpretation of forensic examiners are unchecked. Standard practices in forensics have emerged in recent years, but none has addressed the development of a model of valid digital evidence. Various security and forensic models exist, but they do not address the validity of the digital evidence collected. Research has addressed the issues of validation and verification of forensic software tools but failed to address the validation of forensic evidence. The forensic evidence collected using forensic software tools can be questioned using an anti-forensic approach. The research presented in this paper is not intended to question the skills of forensic examiners in using forensic software tools but rather to guide forensic examiners to look at evidence in an anti-forensic way. This paper proposes a formal procedure to validate evidence of computer crime. \'a9 2011 Copyright Taylor and Francis Group, LLC.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: anti-forensics;  computer forensics;  digital evidence validation;  forensic security model\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1022\
Magalingam, P., Manaf, A.A., Yahya, Z., Ahmad, R.\
35302809600;35609249400;55019061100;57201837628;\
A new digital evidence retrieval model for gambling machine forensic investigation\
(2011) Jurnal Teknologi, 54, pp. 55-69. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84857419619&doi=10.11113%2fjt.v54.91&partnerID=40&md5=3efa1d611fea63bb4a3cf3d5d6d949cd\
\
DOI: 10.11113/jt.v54.91\
AFFILIATIONS: Centre For Advanced Software Engineering, College of Science and Technology, Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, International Campus, Jalan Semarak, 54100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: Hardware forensic analysis involves the process of analyzing digital evidence derived from digital sources. The analysis is done to facilitate and prove either the device is used to commit crime, whether it contains evidence of a crime or is the target of a crime. Gambling machines serve as the main source by which illegal games are conducted. This paper presents a method for retrieving information from a seized gaming machine, along with an analysis of the interpreted information to prove that the gaming machine was used illegally. The proposed procedures for the gambling machine forensic process will be important for forensic investigators (e.g., the police or private investigators), as they will assist these individuals in the digital forensic evidence analysis necessary to produce evidence relevant to illegal gambling. \'a9 Universiti Teknologi Malaysia.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensic;  Forensic analysis;  Gambling machine;  Information retrieval method;  Interpretation;  String search\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1023\
Yen, Y.-S., Lin, I.-L., Wu, B.-L.\
8890078700;15925460000;55468140400;\
A study on the forensic mechanisms of VoIP attacks: Analysis and digital evidence\
(2011) Digital Investigation, 8 (1), pp. 56-67. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-80051625478&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2011.03.003&partnerID=40&md5=6b4445e85fa8ca837aea6ba5f63f0e9e\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2011.03.003\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Applied Informatics, Fo-Guang University, Ilan, Taiwan; \
Department of Information Management, Central Police University, Taoyuen, Taiwan\
ABSTRACT: This paper discusses the use of communication technology to commit crimes, including crime facts and crime techniques. The analysis focuses on the security of voice over Internet protocol (VoIP), a prevention method against VoIP call attack and the attention points for setting up an Internet phone. The importance of digital evidence and digital forensics are emphasised. This paper provides the VoIP digital evidence forensics standard operating procedures (DEFSOP) to help police organisations and establishes an experimental platform to simulate phone calls, hacker attacks and forensic data. Finally, this paper provides a general discussion of a digital evidence strategy that includes VoIP for crime investigators who are interested in digital evidence forensics. \'a9 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Cyber crime;  Digital evidence;  Forensic computing;  VoIP\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1024\
Luo, S., Wu, D., Wang, S.\
36634536700;57044523100;54911241600;\
Hiding traces of the blurring effect in digital forgeries\
(2010) ICINA 2010 - 2010 International Conference on Information, Networking and Automation, Proceedings, 2, art. no. 5636969, pp. V2158-V2160. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-78650507766&doi=10.1109%2fICINA.2010.5636969&partnerID=40&md5=34941ce5d072cc94a366224744a24fb5\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICINA.2010.5636969\
AFFILIATIONS: Information and Computer Engineering College, Northeast Forestry University, Harbin, China; \
School of Computer Science and Technology, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin, China\
ABSTRACT: The confliction between image tampering and digital forensic has persisted for more than a decade. With powerful photo editing software, everyone can easily forge images by Copy-Paste operation. To eliminate the visual edge introduced by tampering, they may employ edge and region smoothing after the contents are manipulated or altered. This process often introduces disharmony between authentic regions and tampering regions. The traces of digital tampering can be detected by estimating the sharpness of the image regions. To remove the fragility of Copy-Paste operation, we proposed a genetic based algorithm to eliminate the blurring in the forgery image. After the processing, the sharpness of the blurred region is recovered and the image quality is preserved. \'a9 2010 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Copy-paste;  Forensic;  Forgery\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1025\
Wang, S., Li, Q., Yang, B., Niu, X.\
54911241600;7405861555;7404472502;7103278179;\
A novel and secure image interpolation methods for image disguise\
(2010) Proceedings - 2010 6th International Conference on Intelligent Information Hiding and Multimedia Signal Processing, IIHMSP 2010, art. no. 5636040, pp. 482-485. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-78650450588&doi=10.1109%2fIIHMSP.2010.123&partnerID=40&md5=650114cdbff0479f2347818c324cb313\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IIHMSP.2010.123\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer Science and Technology, Harbin Institute of Technology, 150001, Harbin, China\
ABSTRACT: The advent of digital forensic techniques imposes great challenges to the security of image disguise where tampering is involved to conceal the existence of sensitive objects in the source image. As a consequence, image interpolation that is a prerequisite step in image disguise should be adapted to be forensic resistant. This paper proposes a novel and secure interpolation method to facilitate image disguise. As it is reported in the literature, the trace of interpolation can be detected by exploiting the linear relationship among pixels. Therefore, forensic resistant is achieved in this work by breaking the linear relationship among pixels. In particular, genetic algorithm is employed make a balance between forensic resistance and the visual quality of the tampered image. \'a9 2010 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Genetic algorithm;  Image disguise;  Re-sampling\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1026\
Boddington, R.\
55421251600;\
Digital evidence\
(2010) Digital Business Security Development: Management Technologies, pp. 37-72. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84899272572&doi=10.4018%2f978-1-60566-806-2.ch002&partnerID=40&md5=02a92ac953fb314e12e6d6e8489b0ed2\
\
DOI: 10.4018/978-1-60566-806-2.ch002\
AFFILIATIONS: Murdoch University, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Digital evidence, now more commonly relied upon in legal cases, requires an understanding of the processes used in its identification, preservation, analysis and validation. Business managers relying on digital evidence in the corporate environment need a greater understanding of its true nature and difficulties affecting its usefulness in criminal, civil and disciplinary proceedings. This chapter describes digital evidence collection and analysis, and the implications of common challenges diminishing its admissibility. It looks at determining the evidentiary weight of digital evidence that can be perplexing and confusing because of the complexity of the technical domain. Digital evidence present on computer networks is easily replaced, altered, destroyed or concealed and requires special protection to preserve its evidentiary integrity. Consequently, business managers seeking the truth of a matter can find it a vexing experience, unless provided with a clear appraisal and interpretation of the relevant evidence. Validating evidence, that is often complex and incomplete, requires expert analysis to determine its value in legal cases to provide timely guidance to business managers and their legal advisers. While soundly configured security systems and procedures enhance data protection and recovery, they are often limited in the way they preserve digital evidence. Unprepared personnel can also contaminate evidence unless procedural guidelines and training are provided. The chapter looks at the benefits for prudent organisations, who may wish to include cyber forensic strategies as part of their security risk contingency, planning to minimise loss or degradation of digital evidence which, if overlooked, may have adverse legal repercussions. \'a9 2011, IGI Global.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1027\
Scanlon, M., Kechadi, M.-T.\
52264702800;6603214509;\
Online acquisition of digital forensic evidence\
(2010) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, 31 LNICST, pp. 122-131. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84885893329&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-11534-9_12&partnerID=40&md5=84db686d5c6a792ba446aa82d29f1dbd\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-11534-9_12\
AFFILIATIONS: UCD Centre for Cybercrime Investigation, School of Computer Science and Informatics, University College Dublin, Belfield, Dublin 4, Ireland\
ABSTRACT: Providing the ability to any law enforcement officer to remotely transfer an image from any suspect computer directly to a forensic laboratory for analysis, can only help to greatly reduce the time wasted by forensic investigators in conducting on-site collection of computer equipment. RAFT (Remote Acquisition Forensic Tool) is a system designed to facilitate forensic investigators by remotely gathering digital evidence. This is achieved through the implementation of a secure, verifiable client/server imaging architecture. The RAFT system is designed to be relatively easy to use, requiring minimal technical knowledge on behalf of the user. One of the key focuses of RAFT is to ensure that the evidence it gathers remotely is court admissible. This is achieved by ensuring that the image taken using RAFT is verified to be identical to the original evidence on a suspect computer. \'a9 Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering 2010.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Evidence;  Hard drive acquisition;  Imaging;  Internet;  Remote;  Verification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1028\
Magalingam, P., Manaf, A.A., Ahmad, R., Yahya, Z.\
35302809600;35609249400;57201837628;55019061100;\
Digital evidence retrieval and forensic analysis on gambling machine\
(2010) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, 31 LNICST, pp. 111-121. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84885892948&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-11534-9_11&partnerID=40&md5=cc628e4518628456cbd250390a46f3b7\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-11534-9_11\
AFFILIATIONS: Centre For Advanced Software Engineering, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, Int'l Campus, Jalan Semarak, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; \
College Science and Technology, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, Int'l Campus, Jalan Semarak, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; \
Electrical Engineering, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, Int'l Campus, Jalan Semarak, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: Hardware forensic analysis involves the process of analyzing digital evidence derived from digital sources. The analysis is done to facilitate and prove either the device is used to commit crime, whether it contains evidence of a crime or is the target of a crime. Gambling machines serve as the main source by which illegal games are conducted. This paper presents a method for retrieving information from a seized gaming machine, along with an analysis of the interpreted information to prove that the gaming machine was used illegally. The proposed procedures for the gambling machine forensic process will be important for forensic investigators (e.g., the police or private investigators), as they will assist these individuals in the digital forensic evidence analysis necessary to produce evidence relevant to illegal gambling. \'a9 Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering 2010.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence;  Digital forensic;  Forensic analysis;  Gambling machine;  Information retrieval;  Interpretation;  String search\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1029\
Li, C.-T., Chang, C.-Y., Li, Y.\
26648782200;55890896000;55718841500;\
On the repudiability of device identification and image integrity verification using sensor pattern noise\
(2010) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, 41 LNICST, pp. 19-25. Cited 17 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84885891736&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-11530-1_3&partnerID=40&md5=9ced6630aa03dfda0db00a8a20e60b3b\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-11530-1_3\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: In this work we study the power of the methods for digital device identification and image integrity verification, which rely on sensor pattern noise as device signatures, and the repudiability of the conclusions drawn from the information produced by this type of methods. We prove that the sensor pattern noise existing in the original images can be destroyed so as to confuse the investigators. We also prove that sensor pattern noise of device A can be easily embedded in the images produced by another device B so that the device identifier would mistakenly suggest that the images were produced by device A, rather than by B, and mislead forensic investigations. \'a9 Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering 2010.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital device identification;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Digital investigation;  Integrity verification;  Sensor pattern noise\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1030\
Mercuri, R.\
55890792200;\
Criminal defense challenges in computer forensics\
(2010) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, 31 LNICST, pp. 132-138. Cited 12 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84885888934&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-11534-9_13&partnerID=40&md5=6c383f89fccfa5e9869f9739db9bca08\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-11534-9_13\
AFFILIATIONS: Notable Software, Inc., P.O. Box 1166, Philadelphia, PA 19105, United States\
ABSTRACT: Computer forensic techniques may be unfairly applied in order to tip the scales of justice in the direction of prosecution. Particular areas that are known to be problematic for defense experts include: erroneous allegations of knowledgeable possession; misuse of time stamps and metadata; control and observation of the discovery process; authentication issues; deficiencies and the lack of verification for proprietary software tools; deliberate omission or obfuscation of exculpatory evidence; and inadvertent risks resulting from the use of legitimate services. Examples in the author's caseload are used to illustrate these inequities in an effort to encourage reform. \'a9 Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering 2010.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Criminal defense;  Digital evidence;  Expert witness;  Forensic investigation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1031\
Zia, T.A.\
15064879400;\
Development, delivery and dynamics of a digital forensics subject\
(2010) Proceedings of the 8th Australian Digital Forensics Conference, pp. 175-182. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84867739771&partnerID=40&md5=803fa58318a4ccda8c2a79134787f3ff\
\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computing and Mathematics, Charles Sturt University, NSW, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics is a newly developed subject offered at Charles Sturt University (CSU). This subject serves as one of the core subjects for Master of Information Systems Security (Digital Forensics stream) course. The subject covers the legislative, regulatory, and technical aspects of digital forensics. The modules provide students detailed knowledge on digital forensics legislations, digital crime, forensics processes and procedures, data acquisition and validation, e-discovery tools, e-evidence collection and preservation, investigating operating systems and file systems, network forensics, email and web forensics, presenting reports and testimony as an expert witness. This paper summarises the process of subject development, delivery, assessments, teaching critique, and provides results from online subject evaluation survey. The dynamics and reflection on subject delivery is particularly important to determine if the subject has met its objectives. Results from the subject critique and student evaluation survey are presented and a reflection on how to improve the subject is provided.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics course;  Digital forensics subject;  Forensics education;  Forensics teaching and training\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1032\
Triton, C.T.C.K., Woodward, A.\
55420465700;26421491900;\
An investigation into the efficacy of three erasure tools under Windows 7\
(2010) Proceedings of the 8th Australian Digital Forensics Conference, pp. 162-168. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84867692178&partnerID=40&md5=0922035801f82d0594fca025ac7a78ae\
\
AFFILIATIONS: SECAU - Security Research Centre, School of Computer and Security Science, Edith Cowan University, Perth, WA, Australia\
ABSTRACT: This paper examined three erasure software tools aimed at removing evidence of online and other activity, and was investigated using the Windows 7 operating system as the test platform. The tools in question were AntiTracks, Free Internet Eraser and Free Internet Window Washer. The findings included each of the tested software's ability to completely erase target data on the drive. It also included examined whether the data was erased or merely the link to the data was deleted, making the file recoverable. It was found that the Anti-Tracks program did not erase any of the information targeted by the researchers. The Free Internet Window Washer software was able to erase Internet Explorer browser history, and recent document activity for the operating system, but not any other activity or information was erased. The last tool, Free Internet Eraser was able to erase all information apart from MSN Messenger chat history, and the temporary internet files. The conclusion is that end users should be careful in selecting or using such erasure tools as they may behave differently under different operating systems, and may not always remove beyond recovery all information.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Digital forensics;  Erasure tools;  Internet activity\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1033\
Malik mohamad, k., Patel, A., Herawan, T., Deris, M.M.\
35435536100;7403523963;35085139400;6507331989;\
MyKarve: JPEG image and thumbnail carver\
(2010) Journal of Digital Forensic Practice, 3 (2-4), pp. 74-97. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-79955460085&doi=10.1080%2f15567281.2010.531607&partnerID=40&md5=ffa77bf343a99f8e3aafb2302af8ff54\
\
DOI: 10.1080/15567281.2010.531607\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, University Tun Hussein Onn, Malaysia; \
School of Computer Science, Universiti Kebangsuan Malaysia, Faculty of Computing Information Systems and Mathamatics, Kingston University, London, United Kingdom; \
Faculty of Computer System and Software Engineering, Universityi Malaysia Pahang, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: We propose an automatic image and thumbnail carving tool called myKarve, which is useful in digital forensics investigation and presentation of evidential information. It is able to carve contiguous and linearly fragmented images caused by garbage, which is tested against three hypotheses to prove its authenticity. These images fall into three categories: images with one or two thumbnails or none at all; thumbnails with headers that do not follow the standard header patterns; and fragmentations caused by garbage. myKarve is designed on a new framework by extending Scalpel features to deal with thumbnail and fragmentation issues. The Validated Joint Photographic Experts Group (JPEG) Header (VJH) list and Address DataBase (ADB) are used to automatically generate work instructions in a work queue to initiate a fully automated image carving process. A shift-key-matching (SKM) technique is used to detect garbage that causes fragmentation in carved images or thumbnails before it can be cleaned. The tool is tested with Digital Forensics Research Work Shop (DFRWS) 2006 and 2007 data sets and images obtained from the Internet. myKarve is found to be a more efficient automated image and thumbnail carver compared to the original Scalpel with the following advantages: detects more headers using validated headers; carves more images and thumbnails by using the newly introduced image patterns; and is able to discard garbage from linearly fragmented images. The results from myKarve are invaluable in the fieldwork of digital forensic analysis and can produce technical evidence of cybercrime activities. \'a9 Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence;  Digital forensic analysis tool;  Digital forensics;  File carving;  File fragmentation;  Image processing\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1034\
Tiwari, L.K., Samaddar, S.G., Singh, A.K., Dwivedi, C.K.\
37103075400;36009386900;57191194962;37010771300;\
Evidentiary usage of e-mail forensics: Real life design of a case\
(2010) ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, pp. 226-230. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-79955078855&doi=10.1145%2f1963564.1963603&partnerID=40&md5=f12d86e0eb2a7a77ebf0be49ffaea94e\
\
DOI: 10.1145/1963564.1963603\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electronics and Communication, University of Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh, India; \
ISEA Project, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology, Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh, India\
ABSTRACT: Computer Forensic, the upcoming branch of forensic science where acquiring, preserving, retrieving and presenting content processed electronically and stored digitally, is used for legal evidence in computer related crimes or any other unethical practice involving manipulation of digital content. Such digital content can take many forms which are manifested by different file formats and digital artifacts. This paper concentrates on evidential usage of recovered deleted e-mail from off-line mail boxes to provide digital evidence in case of non-repudiation either by the sender or by the receiver. This is simply accomplished by using a digital forensic tool Encase 6.0 and applying a capturing mechanism to prove legitimacy of the evidence. The step-by-step procedure is able to increase the practical insight in the capturing of deleted e-mail as digital evidence of non-repudiation and able to provide an example for preparing evidentiary e-mail for presentation in the court of Law or for preparation of any legal procedure. Recovery of deleted e-mails in the form of digital evidence requires certain legal bindings which may be provided under this mechanism. This paper contributes to that extent that recovered files are ready digital evidence in the Court of Law. \'a9 2010 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: .DBX file recovery;  e-mail forensic visualization;  e-mail recovery;  EnCase 6.0;  evidentiary e-mail;  file recovery;  Outlook express mail recovery\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1035\
Zhongmei, W., Yonghong, L.\
37068320000;35292721200;\
Digital image forgeries detection based on blocking artifact\
(2010) Proceedings - 2010 IEEE Youth Conference on Information, Computing and Telecommunications, YC-ICT 2010, art. no. 5713093, pp. 255-258. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-79952767899&doi=10.1109%2fYCICT.2010.5713093&partnerID=40&md5=259935c911a44168e9ec7927acfeb269\
\
DOI: 10.1109/YCICT.2010.5713093\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer and Communication, Hunan University of Technology College, Zhuzhou, China; \
National Laboratory of Pattern, Recognition Institute of Automatic, Chinese Academy of Science, Beijing, China\
ABSTRACT: Digital image forgery detection becomes an important research topic now in digital image forensics. JPEG as a popular file form for digital image. DCT transformation and quantization are two main parts of JPEG encoding process. Quantization table is used for quantizing the DCT coefficient and have been proved as an effective feature for image forgery detection. In this paper, we describe an approach to detect digital forgeries by checking inconsistencies of JPEG blocks and measure the block quantization error to get the forgery area. Experiment results also demonstrate the validity of the proposed approach. \'a9 2010 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Blocking artifact;  Digital forensics;  JPEG compression;  Quantization table\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1036\
Zhang, Y., Yang, G.\
37011874800;57193909185;\
The realization of digital forensics identification workflow audit and custody system\
(2010) 2010 International Conference on Apperceiving Computing and Intelligence Analysis, ICACIA 2010 - Proceeding, art. no. 5709925, pp. 384-387. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-79952330863&doi=10.1109%2fICACIA.2010.5709925&partnerID=40&md5=46fea49fd334cdc43db2f3532629f0f2\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICACIA.2010.5709925\
AFFILIATIONS: Public Security Science and Technology Office, Public Security Science and Technology Department, Xin Jiang Police Officers' Academy, Urumqi, Xinjiang 830001, China; \
Laboratory of Molecular Genetics, College of Medicine, Nankai University, Tianjin 300071, China\
ABSTRACT: Digital evidence gradually turns into a new type lawsuit evidence. The research on digital forensics technologies focus on evidence search, recovery and data analysis, while legality, authenticity and integrality of forensics process doesn't get supervised. In this paper, on the basis of forensic steps and process research, the author intends to illustrate modeling social auditing work and designing a system to monitor digital forensics verification workflow to solve the problem of chain of custody in the process of digital evidence acquisition, transfer, storage and analysis. \'a9 2010 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Chain of custody;  Digital forensics;  Electronic evidence;  Judicial expertise\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1037\
Zhou, G., Mai, Y., Cao, Q.\
57193721503;36976172900;8649744300;\
Design and implementation of VEEL archive system for computer forensics\
(2010) Proceedings 2010 IEEE International Conference on Information Theory and Information Security, ICITIS 2010, art. no. 5688745, pp. 138-141. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-79951618892&doi=10.1109%2fICITIS.2010.5688745&partnerID=40&md5=fd938578b918491a54367bbfa2ed4a98\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICITIS.2010.5688745\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Science and Technology Department, Huazhong University of Science and Technology(HUST), Wuhan, China; \
Electronic Evidence Laboratory, Hubei University of Police (HUPA), Wuhan, China\
ABSTRACT: Computer Forensics has grown rapidly in recent years. The current computer forensic investigation paradigm is laborious and requires significant expertise on the part of the investigators. This paper proposes a highly structured and efficient archive system to provide the disk-imaging mode, by binding computer logical mounting pattern to the current computer forensic work. Logical access pattern to the electronic evidence is expected to offer more assistance and security in the investigation procedures and better knowledge reuse and sharing in computer forensics. It introduces the implemental details of VEEL (Virtual Electronic Evidence Library), which has including the construction of the VEEL platform. With database added, it's based on VEEL so that it can show the application of VEEL in computer forensics more clearly and the master place of electronic evidence. The function of VEEL is implemented by the complete experimental demonstrating system. \'a9 2010 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Component;  Computer forensics;  Disk image;  Electronic evidence;  VEEL\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1038\
Stamm, M.C., Liu, K.J.R.\
34870520200;7404200118;\
Wavelet-based image compression anti-forensics\
(2010) Proceedings - International Conference on Image Processing, ICIP, art. no. 5652845, pp. 1737-1740. Cited 22 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-78651103620&doi=10.1109%2fICIP.2010.5652845&partnerID=40&md5=71faa17d4ac0ce83acc6294c9544c7ff\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICIP.2010.5652845\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Maryland, College Park, United States\
ABSTRACT: Because digital images can be modified with relative ease, considerable effort has been spent developing image forensic algorithms capable of tracing an image's processing history. In contrast to this, relatively little consideration has been given to anti-forensic operations designed to mislead forensic techniques. In this paper, we propose an anti-forensic technique capable of removing artifacts indicative of wavelet-based image compression from an image. Our technique operates by adding anti-forensic dither to a previously compressed image's wavelet coefficients so that the anti-forensically modified wavelet coefficient distribution matches a model of the coefficient distribution before compression. Simulation results show that our algorithm is capable of fooling current forensic image compression detection algorithms 100% of the time. \'a9 2010 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Digital forensics;  Image compression\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1039\
Conotter, V., Boato, G.\
24075511900;8662845900;\
Detecting photo manipulation on signs and billboards\
(2010) Proceedings - International Conference on Image Processing, ICIP, art. no. 5652906, pp. 1741-1744. Cited 27 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-78651091265&doi=10.1109%2fICIP.2010.5652906&partnerID=40&md5=3d901176ae95fe692bffe13e87fca772\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICIP.2010.5652906\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Engineering and Computer Science, University of Trento, Trento, Italy; \
Department of Computer Science, Dartmouth College, Hanover NH 03755, United States\
ABSTRACT: The manipulation of text on a sign or billboard is relatively easy to do in a way that is perceptually convincing. When text is on a planar surface and imaged under perspective projection, the text undergoes a specific distortion. When text is manipulated, it is unlikely to precisely satisfy this geometric mapping. We describe a technique for detecting if text in an image obeys the expected perspective projection, deviations from which are used as evidence of tampering. \'a9 2010 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Digital tampering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1040\
Stamm, M.C., Tjoa, S.K., Lin, W.S., Liu, K.J.R.\
34870520200;18042682600;56997848600;7404200118;\
Undetectable image tampering through JPEG compression anti-forensics\
(2010) Proceedings - International Conference on Image Processing, ICIP, art. no. 5652553, pp. 2109-2112. Cited 64 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-78651088596&doi=10.1109%2fICIP.2010.5652553&partnerID=40&md5=1270e07bc75b526e9e3a87e40311f5ba\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICIP.2010.5652553\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Maryland, College Park, United States\
ABSTRACT: Recently, a number of digital image forensic techniques have been developed which are capable of identifying an image's origin, tracing its processing history, and detecting image forgeries. Though these techniques are capable of identifying standard image manipulations, they do not address the possibility that anti-forensic operations may be designed and used to hide evidence of image tampering. In this paper, we propose an anti-forensic operation capable of removing blocking artifacts from a previously JPEG compressed image. Furthermore, we show that by using this operation along with another anti-forensic operation which we recently proposed, we are able to fool forensic methods designed to detect evidence of JPEG compression in decoded images, determine an image's origin, detect double JPEG compression, and identify cut-and-paste image forgeries. \'a9 2010 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Digital forensics;  JPEG compression\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1041\
Guo, Y., Slay, J.\
56137498400;15756115700;\
Data recovery function testing for digital forensic tools\
(2010) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 337 AICT, pp. 297-311. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-78651063984&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-15506-2_21&partnerID=40&md5=e78c35f1857c824aced523da97e087a5\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-15506-2_21\
AFFILIATIONS: University of South Australia, Adelaide, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Many digital forensic tools used by investigators were not originally designed for forensic applications. Even in the case of tools created with the forensic process in mind, there is the issue of assuring their reliability and dependability. Given the nature of investigations and the fact that the data collected and analyzed by the tools must be presented as evidence, it is important that digital forensic tools be validated and verified before they are deployed. This paper engages a systematic description of the digital forensic discipline that is obtained by mapping its fundamental functions. The function mapping is used to construct a detailed function-oriented validation and verification framework for digital forensic tools. This paper focuses on the data recovery function. The data recovery requirements are specified and a reference set is presented to test forensic tools that implement the data recovery function. \'a9 2010 International Federation for Information Processing.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: data recovery;  Digital forensic tools;  validation;  verification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1042\
van der Knijff, R.\
55447227900;\
Embedded systems analysis\
(2010) Handbook of Digital Forensics and Investigation, pp. 383-435. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77952238110&doi=10.1016%2fB978-0-12-374267-4.00008-2&partnerID=40&md5=8bb5523e2650ed7cc383f70b037ed570\
\
DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-12-374267-4.00008-2\
AFFILIATIONS: Netherlands Forensic Institute, Den Haag, Netherlands\
ABSTRACT: This chapter provides general information about how embedded systems work, followed by a description of methods and techniques for preserving, collecting, analyzing, and interpreting the information they contain. It is important to note that some of the data acquisition methods described in this chapter can cause irreparable damage to the device. Even when experienced forensic examiners successfully acquire data, it may not be possible to return the device to its original working state. Embedded systems are probably the fastest growing source of forensic digital investigations. This is caused partly by technological developments where everything gets smaller, more portable, and wirelessly connected. The autonomous way in which embedded systems operate and leave digital traces, together with limited ways for users to access these traces also contributes to their forensic relevance. For the purposes of forensic examination, it is more practical to make a distinction between computer forensics for which dedicated hardware knowledge is required and computer forensics without the need for such specific knowledge. File system analysis can be done without in-depth hardware knowledge, but to recover any additional information, the hardware characteristics of the storage medium need to be understood and they are mostly part of an embedded system. An overview of various devices, data collection, preserving traces, data acquisition, and analysis of results is presented in the chapter. \'a9 2010 Eoghan Casey Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1043\
MM and Sec'10 - Proceedings of the 2010 ACM SIGMM Multimedia and Security Workshop\
(2010) MM and Sec'10 - Proceedings of the 2010 ACM SIGMM Multimedia and Security Workshop, 253 p. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-78149270326&partnerID=40&md5=e7f4918f4df71d1ecb2cc7b0f8fb97e2\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 32 papers. The topics discussed include: estimating vignetting function from a single image for image authentication; linear row and column predictors for the analysis of resized images; color laser printer forensics with noise texture analysis; anti-forensics of contrast enhancement in digital images; towards event ordering in digital forensics; FLD-based detection of re-compressed speech signals; screenshot identification using combing artifact from interlaced video; negative databases for biometric data; identification and secret-key generation in biometric systems with protected templates; reverse-engineer methods on a biometric hash algorithm for dynamic handwriting; binary spectral minutiae representation with multi-sample fusion for fingerprint recognition; multi-factor biometrics for authentication: a false sense of security; and the impact of ARTMAP to appearance-based face verification.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1044 **SELECTED** SID: 58\
Yusoff, Y., Ismail, R., Hassan, Z.\
56921898900;15839357700;13607947600;\
Adopting hadith verification techniques in to digital evidence authentication\
(2010) Journal of Computer Science, 6 (6), pp. 613-618. Cited 11 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-78049469767&doi=10.3844%2fjcssp.2010.613.618&partnerID=40&md5=b575459ae11f50c2169b673a350f555e\
\
DOI: 10.3844/jcssp.2010.613.618\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Software Engineering, College of Information Technology, University Tenaga National, 43009 Kajang, Selangor, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: Problem statement: The needs of computer forensics investigators have been directly influenced by the increasing number of crimes performed using computers. It is the responsibility of the investigator to ascertain the authenticity of the collected digital evidence. Without proper classification of digital evidence, the computer forensics investigator may ended up investigating using untrusted digital evidence and ultimately cannot be use to implicate the suspected criminal. Approach: The historical methods of verifying the authenticity of a hadith were studied. The similarities between hadith authentication and digital evidence authentication were identified. Based on the similarities of the identified processes, a new method of authenticating digital evidence was proposed, together with the trust calculation algorithm and evidence classification. Results: The new investigation processes and an algorithm to calculate the trust value of given digital evidence was proposed. Furthermore, a simple classification of evidence, based on the calculated trust values was also proposed. Conclusion/Recommendations: We had successfully extracted the methods to authenticate hadith and mapped it into the digital evidence authentication processes. The trust values of digital evidence were able to be calculated and the evidence can be further classified based on the different level of trust values. The ability to classify evidence based on trust levels can offer great assistance to the computer forensics investigator to plan their works and focus on the evidence that would give them a better chance of catching the criminals. \'a9 2010 Science Publications.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Digital evidence authentication;  Hadith authentication\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1045\
Stamm, M.C., Liu, K.J.R.\
34870520200;8705829000;\
Forensic estimation and reconstruction of a contrast enhancement mapping\
(2010) ICASSP, IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing - Proceedings, art. no. 5495488, pp. 1698-1701. Cited 57 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-78049407658&doi=10.1109%2fICASSP.2010.5495488&partnerID=40&md5=a36c57150613ff0ae7f614e2e12becfc\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICASSP.2010.5495488\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Maryland, College Park, MD, United States\
ABSTRACT: Due to the ease with which convincing digital image forgeries can be created, a need has arisen for digital forensic techniques capable of detecting image manipulation. Once image alterations have been identified, the next logical forensic task is to recover as much information as possible about the unaltered version of image and the operation used to modify it. Previous work has dealt with the forensic detection of contrast enhancement in digital images. In this paper we propose an iterative algorithm to jointly estimate any arbitrary contrast enhancement mapping used to modify an image as well as the pixel value histogram of the image before contrast enhancement. To do this, we use a probabilistic model of an image's pixel value histogram to determine which histogram entries are most likely to correspond to contrast enhancement artifacts. Experimental results are presented to demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method. \'a92010 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Contrast enhancement;  Digital forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1046\
Stamm, M.C., Tjoa, S.K., Lin, W.S., Liu, K.J.R.\
34870520200;18042682600;56997848600;8705829000;\
Anti-forensics of JPEG compression\
(2010) ICASSP, IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing - Proceedings, art. no. 5495491, pp. 1694-1697. Cited 92 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-78049404806&doi=10.1109%2fICASSP.2010.5495491&partnerID=40&md5=9b0e9ee7e424d866d5a1c52c0d9a1f36\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICASSP.2010.5495491\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Maryland, College Park, MD, United States\
ABSTRACT: The widespread availability of photo editing software has made it easy to create visually convincing digital image forgeries. To address this problem, there has been much recent work in the field of digital image forensics. There has been little work, however, in the field of anti-forensics, which seeks to develop a set of techniques designed to fool current forensic methodologies. In this work, we present a technique for disguising an image's JPEG compression history. An image's JPEG compression history can be used to provide evidence of image manipulation, supply information about the camera used to generate an image, and identify forged regions within an image. We show how the proper addition of noise to an image's discrete cosine transform coefficients can sufficiently remove quantization artifacts which act as indicators of JPEG compression while introducing an acceptable level of distortion. Simulation results are provided to verify the efficacy of this anti-forensic technique. \'a92010 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-Forensics;  Digital forensics;  JPEG compression\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1047\
Tr\uc0\u269 ek, D., Abie, H., Skomedal, \'c5., Starc, I.\
55897351200;6505691222;57211649799;53064612800;\
Advanced framework for digital forensic technologies and procedures\
(2010) Journal of Forensic Sciences, 55 (6), pp. 1471-1480. Cited 15 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-78149296009&doi=10.1111%2fj.1556-4029.2010.01528.x&partnerID=40&md5=4c44742304dff880c99ab14d4df2fac8\
\
DOI: 10.1111/j.1556-4029.2010.01528.x\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Computer and Information Science, University of Ljubljana, Tr\'9ea\'9aka c. 25, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia; \
FAMNIT, University of Primorska, Glagolja\'9aka 9, 6000 Koper, Slovenia; \
Norwegian Computing Center, P.O. Box 114, Blindern, NO-0314 Oslo, Norway\
ABSTRACT: Recent trends in global networks are leading toward service-oriented architectures and sensor networks. On one hand of the spectrum, this means deployment of services from numerous providers to form new service composites, and on the other hand this means emergence of Internet of things. Both these kinds belong to a plethora of realms and can be deployed in many ways, which will pose serious problems in cases of abuse. Consequently, both trends increase the need for new approaches to digital forensics that would furnish admissible evidence for litigation. Because technology alone is clearly not sufficient, it has to be adequately supported by appropriate investigative procedures, which have yet become a subject of an international consensus. This paper therefore provides appropriate a holistic framework to foster an internationally agreed upon approach in digital forensics along with necessary improvements. It is based on a top-down approach, starting with legal, continuing with organizational, and ending with technical issues. More precisely, the paper presents a new architectural technological solution that addresses the core forensic principles at its roots. It deploys so-called leveled message authentication codes and digital signatures to provide data integrity in a way that significantly eases forensic investigations into attacked systems in their operational state. Further, using a top-down approach a conceptual framework for forensics readiness is given, which provides levels of abstraction and procedural guides embellished with a process model that allow investigators perform routine investigations, without becoming overwhelmed by low-level details. As low-level details should not be left out, the framework is further evaluated to include these details to allow organizations to configure their systems for proactive collection and preservation of potential digital evidence in a structured manner. The main reason behind this approach is to stimulate efforts on an internationally agreed "template legislation," similarly to model law in the area of electronic commerce, which would enable harmonized national implementations in the area of digital forensics. \'a9 2010 American Academy of Forensic Sciences.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Admissible evidence;  Digital forensics;  Forensic procedures;  Forensic science;  Sensor networks;  Service-oriented architectures\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1048\
Lin, I.-L., Yen, Y.-S., Wu, B.-L., Wang, H.-Y.\
15925460000;8890078700;55468140400;36601626900;\
VoIP network forensic analysis with digital evidence procedure\
(2010) Proceeding - 6th International Conference on Networked Computing and Advanced Information Management, NCM 2010, art. no. 5572499, pp. 236-241. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77958566348&partnerID=40&md5=907537076b3ac1e36104c8e71625cdb0\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Management, Central Police University, Taoyuen, Taiwan; \
Department of Informatics, Fo-Guang University, Ilan, Taiwan\
ABSTRACT: This paper will discuss how the evildoers use communication technology to commit the crime such as the crime facts and crime techniques. The analysis will be focused on the security of Internet phone and organize a prevention method of Internet phone call attack and the attention points of setting up a Internet phone. At the same time, the importance of digital evidence and digital forensics will be pointed out. At last, this paper will combine the discussion of the digital evidence mechanism and Internet phone call in order to integrate the VoIP for the crime investigators and people who are interested in digital evidence forensics to consult.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Digital evidence;  VoIP\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1049\
Lim, S., Park, J., Lim, K.-S., Lee, C., Lee, S.\
36573855100;24529123400;22433598700;57219137029;36063408400;\
Forensic artifacts left by virtual disk encryption tools\
(2010) 2010 3rd International Conference on Human-Centric Computing, HumanCom 2010, art. no. 5563320, . Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77958167716&doi=10.1109%2fHUMANCOM.2010.5563320&partnerID=40&md5=b08180409c94abe5c6219a13c6bc7694\
\
DOI: 10.1109/HUMANCOM.2010.5563320\
AFFILIATIONS: Center for Information Security Technologies (CIST), Korea University, Seoul, South Korea; \
Hanshin University, Osan, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: A virtual disk encryption tool is a privacy protection tool that uses an encryption method by generating virtual disk images. It cannot mount an encrypted virtual disk without any authentication, such as key, passphrase, and etc. Thus, it can be used as an anti- forensic tool that makes difficult to process a digital forensic investigation because the content of the virtual disk cannot be identified without mounting the disk. This study investigates the installation, runtime, and deletion behaviors of virtual disk encryption tools in a Windows XP SP3 environment through experiments. Also, this study organizes the traces related to the tools and the elements that are able to verify the mount of the virtual disk. \'a9 2010 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Forensic artifacts;  Virtual disk encryption\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1050\
Dhanalakshmi, R., Chellappan, C.\
35753163100;22333673300;\
Detection and recognition of file masquerading for E-mail and data security\
(2010) Communications in Computer and Information Science, 89 CCIS, pp. 253-262. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77957592208&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-14478-3_26&partnerID=40&md5=067b4cd67f34b208e8bbe51c782e00d6\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-14478-3_26\
AFFILIATIONS: Research Scholar, Department of Computer Science and Engg., Anna University, Chennai, India; \
Department of Computer Science and Engg., Anna University, Chennai, India\
ABSTRACT: Due to the tremendous improvement of internet technology and increasing importance of privacy, security, and wise use of computational resources, the corresponding technologies are increasingly being faced with the problem of file type detection. Digital forensics deals with an investigation of digital evidence to enable investigators to detect the facts for the offences. In digital forensics, there are numerous file formats in use and criminals have started using either non-standard file formats or change extensions of files while storing or transmitting them over a network. This makes recovering data out of these files difficult. This also poses a very severe problem for the unauthorized users to send malicious data across the network and it is essential to tackle this e-crime which may harm the entire organization and network . File type detection has the most usage and importance in the proper functionality of operating systems, firewalls, intrusion detection systems, anti viruses, filters, steganalysis and computer forensics. Certain organizations may ban specific file formats via their intranet or E-mail services and the technique to change file extension in sending across has to be severely monitored. Identifying the type of file format of a digital object will be a crucial function on ingest to a digital repository thereby attaining improved security and fraud prevention .This paper focuses on identifying the true file type , detect the presence of embedded data types to improve analysis efficiency in Digital forensic . \'a9 2010 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  File structure;  Fileprints;  Signature;  Validation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1051\
Stamm, M.C., Liu, K.J.R.\
34870520200;7404200118;\
Forensic detection of image manipulation using statistical intrinsic fingerprints\
(2010) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 5 (3), art. no. 5487389, pp. 492-506. Cited 224 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77955707653&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2010.2053202&partnerID=40&md5=92d3cc57e7df56ba88c70586c48763fb\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2010.2053202\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742, United States\
ABSTRACT: As the use of digital images has increased, so has the means and the incentive to create digital image forgeries. Accordingly, there is a great need for digital image forensic techniques capable of detecting image alterations and forged images. A number of image processing operations, such as histogram equalization or gamma correction, are equivalent to pixel value mappings. In this paper, we show that pixel value mappings leave behind statistical traces, which we shall refer to as a mapping's intrinsic fingerprint, in an image's pixel value histogram. We then propose forensic methods for detecting general forms globally and locally applied contrast enhancement as well as a method for identifying the use of histogram equalization by searching for the identifying features of each operation's intrinsic fingerprint. Additionally, we propose a method to detect the global addition of noise to a previously JPEG-compressed image by observing that the intrinsic fingerprint of a specific mapping will be altered if it is applied to an image's pixel values after the addition of noise. Through a number of simulations, we test the efficacy of each proposed forensic technique. Our simulation results show that aside from exceptional cases, all of our detection methods are able to correctly detect the use of their designated image processing operation with a probability of 99% given a false alarm probability of 7% or less. \'a9 2010 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Contrast enhancement;  digital forensics;  digital image forgery;  intrinsic fingerprints;  pixel value histograms\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1052\
Erbacher, R.F.\
7003584526;\
Validation for digital forensics\
(2010) ITNG2010 - 7th International Conference on Information Technology: New Generations, art. no. 5501688, pp. 756-761. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77955290695&doi=10.1109%2fITNG.2010.18&partnerID=40&md5=899c9a8175b5eb46c59657b3d6d1bd39\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ITNG.2010.18\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Utah State University, Logan, UT 84322, United States\
ABSTRACT: This paper discusses the issues revolving around the need for validation and error in digital environments for the admission of evidence. Second, we discuss the how digital evidence intrinsically differs and conflicts with privacy protection that is intrinsic to traditional computer security. Finally, we begin to lay the theoretical foundations for the provision of validation and the computation of error in digital environments. This becomes particularly critical in software environments in which error has not traditionally been considered. \'a9 2010 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer security;  Digital forensics;  Error;  Legal and privacy issues;  Validation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1053 **SELECTED** SID: 59 **UNAVAILABLE**\
Rekhis, S., Boudriga, N.\
8546749800;6701876349;\
Formal digital investigation of anti-forensic attacks\
(2010) 5th International Workshop on Systematic Approaches to Digital Forensic Engineering, SADFE 2010, art. no. 5491959, pp. 33-44. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77954906958&doi=10.1109%2fSADFE.2010.9&partnerID=40&md5=8749a40da268a46f11c95a06978d0215\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SADFE.2010.9\
AFFILIATIONS: Communication Networks and Security Research Lab., University of the 7th November, Carthage, Tunisia\
ABSTRACT: One of the major interest perceived by research in digital forensic investigation is the development of theoretical and scientifically proven methods of incident analysis. However, two main problems, which remain unsolved by the literature, could lead the formal incident analysis to be inconclusive. The former is related to the absence of techniques to cope with anti-forensic attacks and reconstruction of scenarios when evidences are compromised by these attacks. The latter is related to lack of theoretical techniques, usable during the system preparation (a phase which precedes the occurrence of an incident) to assess whether the evidence to be generated would be sufficient to prove relevant events that occurred on the compromised system in the presence of anti-forensic attacks. The aim of this research is to develop a theoretical technique of digital investigation which copes with anti-forensic attacks. After developing a formal logic-based model which allows to describe complex investigated systems and generated evidences under different levels of abstractions, we extend the concept of Visibility [1] to characterize situations where anti-forensic attacks would be provable and traces regarding actions hidden by these attacks would become identified. A methodology showing the use of Visibility properties during investigation of anti-forensic attacks is described, and a case study, which exemplifies the proposal, is provided. \'a9 2010 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Formal digital investigation;  Provable events;  Visibility properties\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1054\
5th International Workshop on Systematic Approaches to Digital Forensic Engineering, SADFE 2010\
(2010) 5th International Workshop on Systematic Approaches to Digital Forensic Engineering, SADFE 2010, 171 p. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77954890365&partnerID=40&md5=058ada50b6679226c8f8a4013ba67d9c\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 17 papers. The topics discussed include: identifying and addressing rogue servers in countering Internet email misuse; steganography and visual cryptography in computer forensics; formal digital investigation of anti-forensic attacks; mobile phone forensics: challenges, analysis and tools classification; a platform independent process model for smartphones based on invariants; assessment of virtualization as a sensor technique; knowledge sharing and reuse in digital forensics; standardizing breach incident reporting: introduction of a key for hierarchical classification; digital records forensics: ensuring authenticity and trustworthiness of evidence over time; applying digital forensics in the future Internet enterprise systems - European SME's perspective; explorative visualization of log data to support forensic analysis and signature development; and digital forensics and crime investigation: legal issues in prosecution at national level.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1055\
Kim, Y.-H., Kim, K.J.\
57219191760;14037651400;\
A forensic model on deleted-file verification for securing digital evidence\
(2010) 2010 International Conference on Information Science and Applications, ICISA 2010, art. no. 5480346, . Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77954454561&doi=10.1109%2fICISA.2010.5480346&partnerID=40&md5=2ef7cba442e5ed052db95c721fba88ce\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICISA.2010.5480346\
AFFILIATIONS: Kyonggi University, Dept. of Industry Security, Seoul, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: The computer forensic technique that analyzes the file hidden in the computer or the file information of Windows has been widely used for the criminal check. However, these techniques had the different problems to be presented as the legal resources. The forensic viewpoint has 5 digital evidence principles such as legitimacy, identity, connectivity, speediness, integrity. This thesis is focused on the principle of connectivity. The principle of connectivity so far insisted the evidential connectivity of media, the Chain of Custody, but the research on the connectivity principle of file is not yet made. This thesis analyzed the cause of deleted file, and developed the best model. Also, it used the developed analysis technique to produce the respective model and the case for the precision of model, and applied the model to the case in order to experiment the precision detected. The detection model presented by this thesis will be the important judgmental data for the reliable evidence forensic. \'a92010 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensic;  Deleted -files;  Digital evidence\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1056\
Guo, Y., Slay, J.\
56137498400;15756115700;\
A function oriented methodology to validate and verify forensic copy function of digital forensic tools\
(2010) ARES 2010 - 5th International Conference on Availability, Reliability, and Security, art. no. 5438020, pp. 665-670. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77952386827&doi=10.1109%2fARES.2010.16&partnerID=40&md5=c505400fd2a69b02f9a5436cbfbe2c96\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ARES.2010.16\
AFFILIATIONS: Defence and Systems Institute, University of South Australia, Adelaide, Australia\
ABSTRACT: The growth in the computer forensic field has created a demand for new software (or increased functionality to existing software) and a means to verify that this software is truly forensic i.e. capable of meeting the requirements of the trier of fact. In this work, we present a function oriented testing framework for validation and verification of computer forensic tools. This framework consists of three parts: function mapping, requirements specification and reference set development. Through function mapping, we give a scientific and systemical description of the fundamentals of computer forensic practice, i.e. what functions are needed in the computer forensic investigation process. We focus this paper on the forensic copy function. We specify the requirements and develop and a corresponding reference set to test any tools that possess the forensic copy function. \'a9 2010 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Acquisition;  Digital forensics;  Electronic evidence;  Forensic copy;  Validation;  Verification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1057\
Azemovi\uc0\u263 , J., Mu\'9ai\u263 , D.\
35118675500;57196576004;\
Methods for efficient digital evidences collecting of business proceses and users activity in eLearning enviroments\
(2010) IC4E 2010 - 2010 International Conference on e-Education, e-Business, e-Management and e-Learning, art. no. 5432370, pp. 126-130. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77952159583&doi=10.1109%2fIC4E.2010.92&partnerID=40&md5=2066d74522db075cd3ae34eb0c67a2e9\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IC4E.2010.92\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Information Technologies, Univesity D\'9eemal Bijedi\uc0\u263 , Mostar, Bosnia and Herzegovina\
ABSTRACT: Contemporary information systems such as: eLearning, eUnivesity, eVoting, eHealth, etc., are frequently used and misused for irregular data changes (data tampering). Those facts force us to reconsider our security measures and find a way to improve them. Proving a computer crime act require very complicated processes which are based on digital evidence collecting, forensic analysis and investigation process. Forensic analysis of database systems is very specific and demanding task and therefore presents main inspiration for our research. In this paper we present the fact that classical methods of collecting digital evidence are not appropriate and efficient. In order to improve efficiency we propose combination of well know technology independent methods from database world and their application in field of forensic science. Also we are proposed some new research direction in this area. \'a9 2010 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Audit logging;  Database;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1058\
Kirchner, M., Fridrich, J.\
23135003200;35553538200;\
On detection of median filtering in digital images\
(2010) Proceedings of SPIE - The International Society for Optical Engineering, 7541, art. no. 754110, . Cited 199 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77951863205&doi=10.1117%2f12.839100&partnerID=40&md5=36dddf71c40dd341b12dcb14c4d77b65\
\
DOI: 10.1117/12.839100\
AFFILIATIONS: Technische Universit\'e4t Dresden, Dept. of Computer Science, 01062 Dresden, Germany; \
SUNY Binghamton, Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Binghamton, NY 13902, United States\
ABSTRACT: In digital image forensics, it is generally accepted that intentional manipulations of the image content are most critical and hence numerous forensic methods focus on the detection of such 'malicious' post-processing. However, it is also beneficial to know as much as possible about the general processing history of an image, including content-preserving operations, since they can affect the reliability of forensic methods in various ways. In this paper, we present a simple yet effective technique to detect median filtering in digital images-a widely used denoising and smoothing operator. As a great variety of forensic methods relies on some kind of a linearity assumption, a detection of non-linear median filtering is of particular interest. The effectiveness of our method is backed with experimental evidence on a large image database. \'a9 2010 Copyright SPIE - The International Society for Optical Engineering.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Image processing;  Median filter;  Processing history\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1059\
Goljan, M., Fridrich, J., Chen, M.\
6602851525;35553538200;8560788900;\
Sensor noise camera identification: Countering counter-forensics\
(2010) Proceedings of SPIE - The International Society for Optical Engineering, 7541, art. no. 75410S, . Cited 33 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77951842370&doi=10.1117%2f12.839055&partnerID=40&md5=78179147fa51c359ff714e4a0f27fb40\
\
DOI: 10.1117/12.839055\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, SUNY Binghamton, Binghamton, NY 13902-6000, United States\
ABSTRACT: In camera identification using sensor noise, the camera that took a given image can be determined with high certainty by establishing the presence of the camera's sensor fingerprint in the image. In this paper, we develop methods to reveal counter-forensic activities in which an attacker estimates the camera fingerprint from a set of images and pastes it onto an image from a different camera with the intent to introduce a false alarm and, in doing so, frame an innocent victim. We start by classifying different scenarios based on the sophistication of the attacker's activity and the means available to her and to the victim, who wishes to defend herself. The key observation is that at least some of the images that were used by the attacker to estimate the fake fingerprint will likely be available to the victim as well. We describe the socalled "triangle test" that helps the victim reveal attacker's malicious activity with high certainty under a wide range of conditions. This test is then extended to the case when none of the images that the attacker used to create the fake fingerprint are available to the victim but the victim has at least two forged images to analyze. We demonstrate the test's performance experimentally and investigate its limitations. The conclusion that can be made from this study is that planting a sensor fingerprint in an image without leaving a trace is significantly more difficult than previously thought. \'a9 2010 Copyright SPIE - The International Society for Optical Engineering.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Camera identification;  Counter-forensics;  Digital forensics;  Photo-response non-uniformity;  Sensor fingerprint\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1060\
Cohen, F.B.\
57203259417;\
Attribution of messages to sources in digital forensics cases\
(2010) Proceedings of the Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, art. no. 5428498, . Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77951730099&doi=10.1109%2fHICSS.2010.75&partnerID=40&md5=c5cdd79c85a011a1f8c2d2c92c55e2ab\
\
DOI: 10.1109/HICSS.2010.75\
AFFILIATIONS: California Sciences Institute, United States\
ABSTRACT: This paper presents advances in and limits on the attribution of messages to sources in digital forensics cases. It overviews current attribution technologies, the limits of those technologies, identifies ways in which attributions are made today and their limits, and discusses available methods for attribution within the legal system and the limits of digital forensic evidence for use in these purposes. It then presents a set of tools for message attribution now in use and identifies how they are being used and the limits of their applicability to forensics. The present and historical situation show a need for improved attribution, and clearly there is a long way to go before a sound scientific basis for attributions of messages to sources will be definitive. \'a9 2010 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1061\
Morrison, G.S., Thiruvaran, T., Epps, J.\
12778143300;16644094800;8253310200;\
Estimating the precision of the likelihood-ratio output of a forensic-voice-comparison system\
(2010) Odyssey 2010: Speaker and Language Recognition Workshop, pp. 63-70. Cited 18 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85073121246&partnerID=40&md5=4b791e5d722988e45e7bf70307eb85d4\
\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Language Studies, Australian National University, Canberra, ACT  0200, Australia; \
School of Electrical Engineering and Telecommunications, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW  2052, Australia; \
National ICT Australia (NICTA), Australian Technology Park, Sydney, NSW  1430, Australia\
ABSTRACT: The issues of validity and reliability are important in forensic science. Within the likelihood-ratio framework for the evaluation of forensic evidence, the log-likelihood-ratio cost (Cllr) has been applied as an appropriate metric for evaluating the accuracy of the output of a forensic-voice-comparison system, but there has been little research on developing a quantitative metric of precision. The present paper describes two procedures for estimating the precision of the output of a forensic-comparison system, a non-parametric estimate and a parametric estimate of its 95% credible interval. The procedures are applied to estimate the precision of a basic automatic forensic-voice-comparison system presented with different amounts of questioned-speaker data. The importance of considering precision is discussed. \'a9 Odyssey 2010: Speaker and Language Recognition Workshop. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1062 **SELECTED** SID: 60 **UNAVAILABLE**\
Jahankhani, H., Beqiri, E.\
55970576100;35097201800;\
\pard\tx585\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Digital evidence manipulation using anti-forensic tools and techniques\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 (2010) Handbook of Electronic Security and Digital Forensics, pp. 411-426. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84970967847&doi=10.1142%2f9789812837042_0021&partnerID=40&md5=23e6ffb242e7a07ab0414d5f231ef666\
\
DOI: 10.1142/9789812837042_0021\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computing, IT and Engineering, University of East London, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Criminals are exploiting now digital communications to commit a wide range of crimes such as identity theft, online piracy, financial fraud, terrorism and pornography distribution. Computer forensics is the discipline that deals with the acquisition, investigation, preservation and presentation of digital evidence in the court of law. Whereas anti-forensics is the terminology used to describe malicious activities deployed to delete, alter or hide digital evidence with the main objective of manipulating, destroying and preventing the creation of evidence. The aim of this chapter is to present three of the current anti-forensic approaches and focusing only on memory-based anti-forensics known as anti-forensic live CDs. Memory-based bootable live CDs are specially built Linux operating systems that boot directly from the CD drive into the Random Access Memory (RAM) area. These packages do not load into the hard drive, do not change files or alter other variables in the target system unless specified by the user. Live CD's are used mainly for penetration testing and other security-related tasks and they include a variety of software packages used for anti-forensic purposes. \'a9 2010 by World Scientific Publishing Co. Pte. Ltd. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1063\
Case, A., Marziale, L., Neckar, C., Richard III, G.G.\
24491528600;56193277300;36242111500;7102387624;\
Treasure and tragedy in kmem-cache mining for live forensics investigation\
(2010) DFRWS 2010 Annual Conference, 7, pp. S41-S47. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84868576860&partnerID=40&md5=96bdf5d35485b42040a4a858b032287a\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Digital Forensics Solutions, LLC, United States; \
Neohapsis Inc., United States; \
Dept. of Computer Science, Greater New Orleans Center for Information Assurance (GNOCIA), University of New Orleans, Lakefront Campus, New Orleans, LA 70148, United States\
ABSTRACT: This paper presents the first deep investigation of the kmem-cache facility in Linux from a forensics perspective. The kmem-cache is used by the Linux kernel to quickly allocate and deallocate kernel structures associated with processes, files, and the network stack. Our focus is on deallocated information that remains in the cache and the major contribution of this paper is to illustrate what forensically relevant information can be retrieved from the kmem-cache and what information is definitively not retrievable. We show that the kmem-cache contains a wealth of digital evidence, much of which was either previously unavailable or difficult to obtain, requiring ad hoc methods for extraction. Previously executed processes, memory mappings, sent and received network packets, NAT translations, accessed file system inodes, and more can all be recovered through examination of the kmem-cache contents. We also discuss portable methods for erasing this information, to ensure that private data is no longer recoverable. \'a9 2010 Digital Forensic Research Workshop. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1064\
Distefano, A., Me, G., Pace, F.\
24491757300;6603240003;36242004400;\
Android anti-forensics through a local paradigm\
(2010) DFRWS 2010 Annual Conference, 7, pp. S83-S94. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84868576837&partnerID=40&md5=0db5d221d544b6977c7ad28b54837f8a\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Science, Systems and Production Department, University of Rome Tor Vergata, Via del Politecnico 1, 00133, Rome, Italy; \
IAC, Istituto per le Applicazioni Del Calcolo, CNR, Viale Manzoni 30, Rome, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Mobile devices are among the most disruptive technologies of the last years, gaining even more diffusion and success in the daily life of a wide range of people categories. Unfortunately, while the number of mobile devices implicated in crime activities is relevant and growing, the capability to perform the forensic analysis of such devices is limited both by technological and methodological problems. In this paper, we focus on Anti-Forensic techniques applied to mobile devices, presenting some fully automated instances of such techniques to Android devices. Furthermore, we tested the effectiveness of such techniques versus both the cursory examination of the device and some acquisition tools. \'a9 2010 Digital Forensic Research Workshop. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android;  Anti-forensics;  Evidence;  Mobile devices\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1065\
Alghafli, K.A., Jones, A., Martin, T.A.\
36967843100;56025590600;57042199800;\
Forensic analysis of the Windows 7 Registry\
(2010) Proceedings of the 8th Australian Digital Forensics Conference, pp. 1-17. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84867731037&doi=10.15394%2fjdfsl.2010.1081&partnerID=40&md5=57665d29b0eee315253c67b34b01e0ca\
\
DOI: 10.15394/jdfsl.2010.1081\
AFFILIATIONS: Khalifa University of Science, Technology and Research (KUSTAR), Sharjah, United Arab Emirates; \
Edith Cowan University, Perth, WA, Australia\
ABSTRACT: The recovery of digital evidence of crimes from storage media is an increasingly time consuming process as the capacity of the storage media is in a state of constant growth. It is also a difficult and complex task for the forensic investigator to analyse all of the locations in the storage media. These two factors, when combined, may result in a delay in bringing a case to court. The concept of this paper is to start the initial forensic analysis of the storage media in locations that are most likely to contain digital evidence, the Windows Registry. Consequently, the forensic analysis process and the recovery of digital evidence may take less time than would otherwise be required. In this paper, the Registry structure of Windows 7 is discussed together with several elements of information within the Registry of Windows 7 that may be valuable to a forensic investigator. These elements were categorized into five groups which are system, application, networks, attached devices and the history lists. We have discussed the values of identified elements to a forensic investigator. Also, a tool was implemented to perform the function of extracting these elements and presents them in usable form to a forensics investigator.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer Forensics;  Forensics investigator;  Windows Registry\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1066\
Case, A., Marziale, L., Neckar, C., Richard III, G.G.\
24491528600;56193277300;36242111500;7102387624;\
Treasure and tragedy in kmem-cache mining for live forensics investigation\
(2010) Digital Investigation, 7 (SUPPL.), pp. S41-S47. Cited 11 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77955353210&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2010.05.006&partnerID=40&md5=d07007d5f4daefef81004754a37529a0\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2010.05.006\
AFFILIATIONS: Digital Forensics Solutions, LLC, United States; \
Neohapsis Inc., United States; \
Dept. of Computer Science, University of New Orleans, Lakefront Campus, New Orleans, LA 70148, United States\
ABSTRACT: This paper presents the first deep investigation of the kmem-cache facility in Linux from a forensics perspective. The kmem-cache is used by the Linux kernel to quickly allocate and deallocate kernel structures associated with processes, files, and the network stack. Our focus is on deallocated information that remains in the cache and the major contribution of this paper is to illustrate what forensically relevant information can be retrieved from the kmem-cache and what information is definitively not retrievable. We show that the kmem-cache contains a wealth of digital evidence, much of which was either previously unavailable or difficult to obtain, requiring ad hoc methods for extraction. Previously executed processes, memory mappings, sent and received network packets, NAT translations, accessed file system inodes, and more can all be recovered through examination of the kmem-cache contents. We also discuss portable methods for erasing this information, to ensure that private data is no longer recoverable. \'a9 2010 Digital Forensic Research Workshop. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1067\
Distefano, A., Me, G., Pace, F.\
24491757300;6603240003;36242004400;\
Android anti-forensics through a local paradigm\
(2010) Digital Investigation, 7 (SUPPL.), pp. S83-S94. Cited 29 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77955344280&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2010.05.011&partnerID=40&md5=c03a078f17f2524006a52b8eb3eeefd0\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2010.05.011\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Science, Systems and Production Department University of Rome Tor Vergata, Via del Politecnico 1, 00133 Rome, Italy; \
IAC-CNR, Istituto per le Applicazioni Del Calcolo, Viale Manzoni 30, Rome, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Mobile devices are among the most disruptive technologies of the last years, gaining even more diffusion and success in the daily life of a wide range of people categories. Unfortunately, while the number of mobile devices implicated in crime activities is relevant and growing, the capability to perform the forensic analysis of such devices is limited both by technological and methodological problems. In this paper, we focus on Anti-Forensic techniques applied to mobile devices, presenting some fully automated instances of such techniques to Android devices. Furthermore, we tested the effectiveness of such techniques versus both the cursory examination of the device and some acquisition tools. \'a9 2010 Digital Forensic Research Workshop. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Android;  Anti-Forensics;  Evidence;  Mobile Devices\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1068\
Kao, D.-Y., Wang, S.-J., Fu-Yuan Huang, F.\
14037349500;7410333676;54401036500;\
SoTE: Strategy of Triple-E on solving Trojan defense in Cyber-crime cases\
(2010) Computer Law and Security Review, 26 (1), pp. 52-60. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-74949095652&doi=10.1016%2fj.clsr.2009.09.008&partnerID=40&md5=614b7762f480bf61447431532af6306b\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.clsr.2009.09.008\
AFFILIATIONS: Information Department, Maritime Patrol Directorate General, Coast Guard Administration, Taipei, Taiwan; \
Department of Information Management, Central Police University, TaoYuan, Taiwan\
ABSTRACT: Cyber activity has become an essential part of the general public's everyday life. The hacking threats of Cyber-crime are becoming more sophisticated as internet communication services are more popular. To further confirm the final finding of Cyber-crime, this study proposes three analytical tools to clarify the Cyber-crime issues by means of Ideal Log, M-N model and MDFA (Multi-faceted Digital Forensics Analysis) strategy, where Ideal Log is identified as a traceable element of digital evidence including four elements of IP Address, Timestamp, Digital Action, and Response Message. M-N model applies a formal method for collating and analyzing data sets of investigation-relevant logs in view of\'a0connected time with ISP logs. MDFA strategy attempts to outline the basic elements of Cyber-crime using new procedural investigative steps, and combining universal types of evidential information in terms of Evidence, Scene, Victim, and Suspect. After researchers figure out what has happened in Cyber-crime events, it will be easier to communicate with offenders, victims or related people. SoTE (Strategy of Triple-E) is discussed to observe Cyber-crime from the viewpoints of Education, Enforcement and Engineering. That approach is further analyzed from the fields of criminology, investigation and forensics. Each field has its different focus in dealing with diverse topics, such as: the policy of 6W1H (What, Which, When, Where, Who, Why, and How) questions, the procedure of MDFA strategy, the process of ideal Logs and M-N model. In addition, the case study and proposed suggestion of this paper are presented to counter Cyber-crime. \'a9 2009 Da-Yu Kao, Shiuh-Jeng Wang & Frank Fu-Yuan Huang.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyber criminology;  Cyber-crime;  Digital evidence;  Triple-E strategy;  Trojan defense\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1069\
1st ACM Workshop on Multimedia in Forensics - MiFor'09, Co-located with the 2009 ACM International Conference on Multimedia, MM'09\
(2009) 1st ACM Workshop on Multimedia in Forensics - MiFor'09, Co-located with the 2009 ACM International Conference on Multimedia, MM'09, 73 p. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-72549115486&partnerID=40&md5=c25f92236df824753f310320afae308d\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 11 papers. The topics discussed include: VidentifierTM forensic: a new law enforcement service for automatic identification of illegal video material; VidentifierTM forensic: a new law enforcement service for automatic identification of illegal video material; digital forgery estimation into DCT domain - a critical analysis; video surveillance and multimedia forensics: an application to trajectory analysis foreword; single view geometry and active camera networks made easy; temporal normalization of videos using visual speech; graffiti-ID: matching and retrieval of graffiti images; graffiti-ID: matching and retrieval of graffiti images; multi-target tracking in time-lapse video forensics; design and deployment of a digital forensics service platform for online videos; single view geometry and active camera networks made easy; and exposing digital video forgery by ghost shadow artifact.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1070\
Hui, W., Yin, H., Lin, C.\
35224838500;8314524400;26643559700;\
Design and deployment of a digital forensics service platform for online videos\
(2009) 1st ACM Workshop on Multimedia in Forensics - MiFor'09, Co-located with the 2009 ACM International Conference on Multimedia, MM'09, pp. 31-36. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-72249089325&doi=10.1145%2f1631081.1631089&partnerID=40&md5=50796026b3ef172b598e8266c346b011\
\
DOI: 10.1145/1631081.1631089\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Information Engineering, University of Science and Technology Beijing, Beijing 100083, China; \
Department of Computer Science and Technology, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China\
ABSTRACT: Increasing amount of illegal videos transmitted via Internet has aroused the need to develop digital video forensic systems for deterring and prosecuting digital crimes. Thus in this paper, we propose a digital forensics service platform for online videos, with the goal of revealing illegal videos and preventing them from spreading over the Internet. Different from previous systems, it a) detects more types of digital crimes; b) processes an enormous amount of video data in real time; c) pays more attention to end-user experience. For capturing legal evidence, a special technique - video fingerprinting - is employed. We present a hybrid fingerprint and improve the related algorithms in important ways. To solve dynamic resource scheduling and load balancing problems, the platform is built upon Content Distribution Networks (CDNs). As far as we know, the proposed platform is the first large-scale digital forensics service platform for online videos. It has been deployed and used in practice for detecting thousands of videos under the real web environment. The results of performance evaluation using data obtained from these real-world deployments demonstrate the feasibility of the platform. Copyright 2009 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Digital video;  Video fingerprint\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1071\
Azemovi\uc0\u263 , J., Mu\'9ai\u263 , D.\
35118675500;57196576004;\
Efficient model for detection data and data scheme tempering with purpose of valid forensic analysis\
(2009) MIPRO 2009 - 32nd International Convention Proceedings: Digital Economy - 6th ALADIN, Information Systems Security, Business Intelligence Systems, Local Government and Student Papers, 5, pp. 131-136. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84896831414&partnerID=40&md5=1ea9884b6fa1d74dc382f14f7a97f5ae\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Univesity 'D\'9eemal Bijedi\uc0\u263 ', Mar\'9aala Tita (Sjeverni logor b.b), Mostar, Bosnia and Herzegovina\
ABSTRACT: Accelerating development of information technologies also causes the growth of computer crime which has the main goal to profit illegally, industrial espionage, forgery and falsification of data. Therefore, a demand for data security is needed more than ever. This paper describes a model which ensures effective detection of authorized and unauthorized modification of database scheme and data itself. At the moment when data modification becomes a criminal act, this model represents a foundation for forensic analysis of collected digital evidence. A research described in the paper has been applied on access control methods which use SQL triggers. Special emphasis is laid on detection of forgery over data which were created during the process of access control using hashing methods. \'a9 2009 by MIPRO.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer crime;  Data tampering;  Database;  Forensic analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1072\
Knight, S., Moschou, S., Sorell, M.\
52663673700;55890822800;6602563226;\
Analysis of sensor photo response non-uniformity in RAW images\
(2009) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, 8 LNICST, pp. 130-141. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84885886200&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-02312-5_15&partnerID=40&md5=95bcf66c589f1c1e39c4077d8ae95e80\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-02312-5_15\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, University of Adelaide, Australia\
ABSTRACT: The focus of this paper is a review of a digital camera identification technique proposed by Lukas et al [1], and a modification of the denoising filter, allowing it to be used for raw sensor data. The approach of using raw sensor data allows analysis of the noise pattern separate from any artefacts introduced by on-board camera processing. We use this extension for investigating the reliability of the technique when using different lenses between the same camera and between cameras of the same manufacturer. \'a9 ICST Institute for Computer Sciences, Social Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering 2009.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensic;  Reference noise pattern;  Sensor noise;  Source identification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1073\
DFRWS 2009 Annual Conference\
(2009) DFRWS 2009 Annual Conference, 140 p. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84868384124&partnerID=40&md5=52500c7e52b750981f65a7fb8f25ee9e\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 15 papers. The topics discussed include: DEX: digital evidence provenance supporting reproducibility and comparison; validation and verification of computer forensic software tools searching function; DIALOG: a framework for modeling, analysis and reuse of digital forensic knowledge; extending the advanced forensic format to accommodate multiple data sources, logical evidence, arbitrary information and forensic workflow; a second generation computer forensic analysis system; Teleporter: an analytically and forensically sound duplicate transfer system; bringing science to digital forensics with standardized forensic corpora; lessons learned from the construction of a Korean software reference data set for digital forensics; digital forensic implications of ZFS; identification and recovery of JPEG files with missing fragments; and a novel time-memory trade-off method for password recovery.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1074\
Seo, K., Lim, K., Choi, J., Chang, K., Lee, S.\
54382414700;22433598700;56126712400;8845721100;36063408400;\
Detecting similar files based on hash and statistical analysis for digital forensic investigation\
(2009) Proceedings of the 2009 2nd International Conference on Computer Science and Its Applications, CSA 2009, art. no. 5404198, . Cited 13 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-80655148030&doi=10.1109%2fCSA.2009.5404198&partnerID=40&md5=6656184f105a6785c05ce473317ede90\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CSA.2009.5404198\
AFFILIATIONS: Cyber Terror Response Center, Korean National Police Agency, Seoul, South Korea; \
Digital Forensic Research Center, Korea University, Seoul, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: In modern society, rapid increase in using mass storage devices, and it makes forensic examiners find important evidence hardly in the focus of time-consuming. Examiners spend much time to search files related to the case in variety of storage devices. Recently, NIST(National Institute of Standards and Technology) has developed a new database, called NSRL(National Software Reference Library), which contains hash values of trusted operating systems and programs[1]. As establishing this database service in public, NIST contribute to reduce time-consuming in searching file and detecting forgery on the devices. On the other hand, the hash value based detection technique cannot be distinguished the similarity from other files perfectly. In this paper, therefore, we present novel methods for detecting similar files considering the known fuzzy hashing and statistical analysis and developed out prototype tool, called SimFD. \'a9 2009 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Block-based hash;  CTPH algorithm;  Digital forensics;  Hash;  Similar files\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1075\
Law, F.Y.W., Lai, P.K.Y., Chow, K.P., Ieong, R.S.C., Kwan, M.Y.K., Tse, K.W.H., Tse, H.K.S.\
19640490000;19640260600;7202180751;22734240200;19640239200;7102609851;56895695800;\
Memory acquisition: A 2-Take approach\
(2009) Proceedings of the 2009 2nd International Conference on Computer Science and Its Applications, CSA 2009, art. no. 5404199, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-80655130272&doi=10.1109%2fCSA.2009.5404199&partnerID=40&md5=368b7d821096551c178385190aadce87\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CSA.2009.5404199\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong\
ABSTRACT: When more and more people recognize the value of volatile data, live forensics gains more weight in digital forensics. It is often used in parallel with traditional pull-the-plug forensics to provide a more reliable result in forensic examination. One of the core components in live forensics is the collection and analysis of memory volatile data, during which the memory content is acquired for searching of relevant evidential data or investigating various computer processes to unveil the activities being performed by a user. However, this conventional method may have weaknesses because of the volatile nature of memory data and the absence of original data for validation. This may cause implication to the admissibility of memory data at the court of law which requires strict authenticity and reliability of evidence. In this paper, we discuss the impact of various memory acquisition methods and suggest a 2-Take approach which aims to enhance the confidence level of the acquired memory data for legal proceedings. \'a9 2009 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Live forensics;  Memory acquisition;  Memory forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1076\
Mohamad, K.M., Deris, M.M.\
35275818400;6507331989;\
Fragmentation point detection of JPEG images at DHT using validator\
(2009) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 5899 LNCS, pp. 173-180. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-78650688275&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-10509-8_20&partnerID=40&md5=a5e4bb0643725ca3dbfcda9be5946ab7\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-10509-8_20\
AFFILIATIONS: Faculty of Information Technology and Multimedia, Universiti Tun Hussein Onn Malaysia (UTHM), 86400 Parit Raja, Batu Pahat, Johor, Malaysia\
ABSTRACT: File carving is an important, practical technique for data recovery in digital forensics investigation and is particularly useful when filesystem metadata is unavailable or damaged. The research on reassembly of JPEG files with RST markers, fragmented within the scan area have been done before. However, fragmentation within Define Huffman Table (DHT) segment is yet to be resolved. This paper analyzes the fragmentation within the DHT area and list out all the fragmentation possibilities. Two main contributions are made in this paper. Firstly, three fragmentation points within DHT area are listed. Secondly, few novel validators are proposed to detect these fragmentations. The result obtained from tests done on manually fragmented JPEG files, showed that all three fragmentation points within DHT are successfully detected using validators. \'a9 Springer-Verlag 2009.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Data recovery;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  File carving\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1077\
Shi, Y.Q.\
7404964736;\
First digit law and its application to digital forensics\
(2009) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 5450 LNCS, pp. 448-453. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-78650389780&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-04438-0_37&partnerID=40&md5=bfff4e7860489b7c90b7a55c4a04373f\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-04438-0_37\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark, NJ 07102, United States\
ABSTRACT: Digital data forensics, which gathers evidence of data composition, origin, and history, is crucial in our digital world. Although this new research field is still in its infancy stage, it has started to attract increasing attention from the multimedia-security research community. This lecture addresses the first digit law and its applications to digital forensics. First, the Benford and generalized Benford laws, referred to as first digit law, are introduced. Then, the application of first digit law to detection of JPEG compression history for a given BMP image and detection of double JPEG compressions are presented. Finally, applying first digit law to detection of double MPEG video compressions is discussed. It is expected that the first digit law may play an active role in other task of digital forensics. The lesson learned is that statistical models play an important role in digital forensics and for a specific forensic task different models may provide different performance. \'a9 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1078\
Luo, W., Huang, J., Qiu, G.\
18042301700;56057258200;7103292111;\
A novel method for block size forensics based on morphological operations\
(2009) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 5450 LNCS, pp. 229-239. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-78650351495&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-04438-0_20&partnerID=40&md5=e26d8b0b12b42366ef567b5cd4df5281\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-04438-0_20\
AFFILIATIONS: Guangdong Key Lab. of Information Security Technology, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangdong, 510275, China; \
School of Computer Science, University of Nottingham, NG 8, 1BB, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Passive forensics analysis aims to find out how multimedia data is acquired and processed without relying on pre-embedded or preregistered information. Since most existing compression schemes for digital images are based on block processing, one of the fundamental steps for subsequent forensics analysis is to detect the presence of block artifacts and estimate the block size for a given image. In this paper, we propose a novel method for blind block size estimation. A 2 \'d7 2 cross-differential filter is first applied to detect all possible block artifact boundaries, morphological operations are then used to remove the boundary effects caused by the edges of the actual image contents, and finally maximum-likelihood estimation (MLE) is employed to estimate the block size. The experimental results evaluated on over 1300 nature images show the effectiveness of our proposed method. Compared with existing gradient-based detection method, our method achieves over 39% accuracy improvement on average. \'a9 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Block artifacts detection;  Digital forensics;  Morphological operations\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1079\
Yao, H., Wang, S., Zhang, X.\
52464719400;56048848700;56034166800;\
Detect piecewise linear contrast enhancement and estimate parameters using spectral analysis of image histogram\
(2009) IET Conference Publications, 2009 (562 CP), pp. 94-97. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-78649816070&doi=10.1049%2fcp.2009.1898&partnerID=40&md5=cd4935412c780e1698348ba7afaf7262\
\
DOI: 10.1049/cp.2009.1898\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Communication and Information Engineering, Shanghai University, Shanghai 200072, China\
ABSTRACT: Linear contrast enhancement is a common procedure for expanding or reducing dynamic range of the image gray values. We propose a method to detect global linear contrast enhancement to be used as a technique for digital image authentication. We show that a linear mapping operation introduces periodic artifacts into the histogram, and the period is related to the mapping function. We develop an algorithm to estimate the parameters of a three-section polyline mapping function. Experimental results show effectiveness of the proposed algorithms.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Blind estimation of mapping function;  Digital forensics;  Linear contrast detection;  Periodic artifacts\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1080\
Wang, L., Zhang, R., Zhang, S.\
10041394500;56164017700;35303908100;\
A model of computer live forensics based on physical memory analysis\
(2009) 2009 1st International Conference on Information Science and Engineering, ICISE 2009, art. no. 5454440, pp. 4647-4649. Cited 16 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77952775647&doi=10.1109%2fICISE.2009.69&partnerID=40&md5=043b5e87972e5026cdfae7901bff9f92\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICISE.2009.69\
AFFILIATIONS: Shandong Computer Science Center, 19 Keyuan Road, Jinan 250014, China\
ABSTRACT: This paper provide a look at some of the shortcomings of current approaches to live forensics. On this basis, a model of computer live forensics based on physical memory analysis is proposed. The model can be used to effectively address many of the challenges facing the conventional live forensics. Then taking the credibility of digital evidence as a starting point, the issue of credibility of live forensic is then put forward for study. Finally, methods of credibility calculation are given through probabilistic and statistical computing. This work may help to improve the scientific credibility of the digital evidence acquired by live forensic in current practice. \'a92009 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Computer live forensics;  Digital forensics;  Memoryanalysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1081\
Lee, S., Lee, K., Savoldi, A., Lee, S.\
15925472200;25422175800;15926035800;36063408400;\
Data leak analysis in a corporate environment\
(2009) 2009 4th International Conference on Innovative Computing, Information and Control, ICICIC 2009, art. no. 5412531, pp. 38-43. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77951487482&doi=10.1109%2fICICIC.2009.154&partnerID=40&md5=4852b35bcdcdb86ba20d3fa6ace9adcd\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICICIC.2009.154\
AFFILIATIONS: Center for Information Security Technologies - CIST, Korea University, Seoul, South Korea; \
Department of Electronics for Automation, University of Brescia, Via Branze 38, I25121 Brescia, Italy\
ABSTRACT: Digital Forensics focuses on the collection of evidence from the volatile and non-volatile memory of a computer-based system, such as the hard disk and the RAM content. Needless to say, hard disk data are crucial in the investigation, but whether hard disk data collection is possible or not depends on the features of the case, and whether the forensics practitioners have a suitable legal permission. As nowadays the capacity of hard disks is increasing more and more, it takes a considerable amount of time to perform the imaging phase, and thus to deal with different steps in the chain of custody of the case. As a consequence, delaying the collection step in the investigation may have a detrimental effect on the progress of the investigation or may be a barrier to succeed in the investigation. Hence, we suggest an efficient methodology to collect evidence for dealing with data leak cases, by substantially reducing the collection time. \'a9 2009 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1082\
Kang, X., Wei, S.M.\
39261638700;7401765515;\
An efficient approach to still image copy detection based on SVD and block partition for digital forensics\
(2009) Proceedings - 2009 IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Computing and Intelligent Systems, ICIS 2009, 3, art. no. 5358149, pp. 457-461. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77949650109&doi=10.1109%2fICICISYS.2009.5358149&partnerID=40&md5=ac4f3be465f6b77d559fcee78e1eb6f3\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICICISYS.2009.5358149\
AFFILIATIONS: Key Laboratory of Contemporary Design and Integrated Manufacturing Technology, Ministry of Education, Northwestern Polytechnical University, Xi'an Shaanxi 710072, China\
ABSTRACT: As an important component of passive media forensics(PMF), content-based copy detection(CBCD) is appropriate for identifying piracy of digital content and preventing falsified evidence. In this paper, we propose a novel and efficient CBCD scheme for identifying different altered versions of original images. We employ singular value decomposition(SVD) and block partition to improve the robustness and discriminability of image content identification. To examine the validity of proposed copy detection algorithm, 32 attacks including geometric transformation, signal processing and image manipulation, are applied to copyrighted images to generate large virtual altered images. Experimental results demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed copy detection scheme in withstanding various attacks. \'a92009 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Content-based copy detection;  Copyright protection;  Digital image forensics;  Digital rights management;  Singular value decomposition\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1083\
Wang, N., Liu, Z., Huang, Y.\
57207286631;57191688445;35736970800;\
Applying dynamic labels of the biba model in forensic evidence analysis\
(2009) CIS 2009 - 2009 International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Security, 2, art. no. 5376163, pp. 478-482. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77949286032&doi=10.1109%2fCIS.2009.92&partnerID=40&md5=b79ab4213e61ba12a73ce4bbba7a3fef\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CIS.2009.92\
AFFILIATIONS: Information Technology Department, Hubei University of Police, Hubei Wuhan, China; \
Information Technology Department, Hubei University of Police, Wuhan University, Hubei Wuhan, China; \
Experimental Central, Hubei University of Police, Hubei Wuhan, China\
ABSTRACT: The analysis of digital evidence aims to look for the clues for further crime detection or reconstruct the attack actions scenarios for prosecution in court. However, data corruption, loss, tampering, incorrect interpretation, etc and too much experiential work and sensory presentation of the investigators will lead an inference conclusion to be fabricated to misdirect crime detection or implicate an innocent person. Evidence integrity is paramount to an investigation. Based on the analysis of practical inference analysis and the work of Kweku K Arthur, etc., a kind of Dynamic Labels of the Biba integrity model is presented, which can satisfy the practical application of the forensic evidence analysis while keeping evidence integrity strictly. The actual application result indicates that the method is flexible and practicable. \'a9 2009 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensic;  Digital evidence;  Dynamic labels;  Evidence integrity;  Integrity model\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1084\
Cohen, F.\
57203259417;\
Analysis of redundant traces for consistency with examples from electronic messaging and graphical images\
(2009) Proceedings - International Computer Software and Applications Conference, 2, art. no. 5254057, pp. 386-391. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-70449630324&doi=10.1109%2fCOMPSAC.2009.164&partnerID=40&md5=69b7fcf9f28bd1ef11f03cd3f65d828b\
\
DOI: 10.1109/COMPSAC.2009.164\
AFFILIATIONS: California Sciences Institute, Fred Cohen and Associates, Livermore, CA 94550, United States\
ABSTRACT: This paper is about the detection of inconsistencies and consistencies in redundant traces to detect forgeries, demonstrate forensic soundness, and lend weight to assertions made by forensic examiners performing analysis. \'a9 2009 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Analysis;  Digital forensics;  Trace consistency\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1085\
Park, J.-H., Kim, M., Noh, B.-N.\
35810942900;57207922620;6603862486;\
A visualization technique for installation evidences containing malicious executable files using machine language sequence\
(2009) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 5379 LNCS, pp. 201-210. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-70350637547&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-00306-6_15&partnerID=40&md5=96844d2e62d20b08cdbba5c7ecf78c25\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-00306-6_15\
AFFILIATIONS: System Security Research Center, Chonnam National University, South Korea; \
Dept. of Information Security, Mokpo National University, South Korea; \
School of Electronics and Computer Engineering, Chonnam National University, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: In the modern society the majority of information is stored and preserved on the digitalized storage medium. By the way, it is difficult to recognize that there are any adding, deleting, or changing of the records in the digitalized storage medium. In this paper, we suggest an evidence detection technique of malicious executable file installation on computer system using visualization of similarity between machine language sequences. Also suggested method can not only detect original malwares but also mutants of them. Besides, our method can help to reassemble the data blocks containing the fragments of the malicious file back into their proper sequences for securing legal evidences. \'a9 2009 Springer Berlin Heidelberg.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-Forensic;  Digital Forensic;  Machine language;  Malicious executables;  Malware;  Opcode visualization;  Similarity\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1086\
McLauchlan, L., Mehr\'fcbeo\uc0\u487 lu, M.\
11540931400;7801548559;\
Evidence of tampering in watermark identification\
(2009) Proceedings of SPIE - The International Society for Optical Engineering, 7444, art. no. 74440D, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-70350376902&doi=10.1117%2f12.826819&partnerID=40&md5=5605b0e5ad1e38feadcad7b87870514f\
\
DOI: 10.1117/12.826819\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Electrical Eng. and Comp. Sci., MSC 192, Texas A and M UniversityKingsville, 700 University Blvd, Kingsville, TX 78363-8202, United States; \
Engineering Technology Program, Dept. of CAMS, Texas A and M UniversityCorpus Christi, 6300 Ocean Dr., Corpus Christi, TX 78412-5797, United States\
ABSTRACT: In this work, watermarks are embedded in digital images in the discrete wavelet transform (DWT) domain. Principal component analysis (PCA) is performed on the DWT coefficients. Next higher order statistics based on the principal components and the eigenvalues are determined for different sets of images. Feature sets are analyzed for different types of attacks in m dimensional space. The results demonstrate the separability of the features for the tampered digital copies. Different feature sets are studied to determine more effective tamper evident feature sets. The digital forensics, the probable manipulation(s) or modification(s) performed on the digital information can be identified using the described technique. \'a9 2009 SPIE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Discrete wavelet transform, DWT;  Image processing;  PCA;  Principal component analysis;  Watermarking\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1087 **SELECTED** SID: 61\
Pajek, P., Pimenidis, E.\
35097758000;25636407200;\
Computer anti-forensics methods and their impact on computer forensic investigation\
(2009) Communications in Computer and Information Science, 45, pp. 145-155. Cited 15 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-70350116945&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-04062-7_16&partnerID=40&md5=045b28332098327958bf1863f0050f07\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-04062-7_16\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computing IT and Engineering, University of East London, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Electronic crime is very difficult to investigate and prosecute, mainly due to the fact that investigators have to build their cases based on artefacts left on computer systems. Nowadays, computer criminals are aware of computer forensics methods and techniques and try to use countermeasure techniques to efficiently impede the investigation processes. In many cases investigation with such countermeasure techniques in place appears to be too expensive, or too time consuming to carry out. Often a case can end up being abandoned and investigators are left with a sense of personal defeat. The methodologies used against the computer forensics processes are collectively called Anti-Forensics. This paper explores the anti forensics problem in various stages of computer forensic investigation from both a theoretical and practical point of view. \'a9 2009 Springer Berlin Heidelberg.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer Anti-forensics Methods;  Computer Forensics Investigation;  Computer Forensics Tools\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1088\
Simon, M., Slay, J.\
56007866100;15756115700;\
Enhancement of forensic computing investigations through memory forensic techniques\
(2009) Proceedings - International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security, ARES 2009, art. no. 5066600, pp. 995-1000. Cited 17 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-70349687555&doi=10.1109%2fARES.2009.119&partnerID=40&md5=1150b2cbda55258080b10a1cbfd5e251\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ARES.2009.119\
AFFILIATIONS: Defence and Systems Institute (DASI), University of South Australia, Adelaide, Australia\
ABSTRACT: The use of memory forensic techniques has the potential to enhance computer forensic investigations. The analysis of digital evidence is facing several key challenges; an increase in electronic devices, network connections and bandwidth, the use of anti-forensic technologies and the development of network centric applications and technologies has lead to less potential evidence stored on static media and increased amounts of data stored off-system. Memory forensic techniques have the potential to overcome these issues in forensic analysis. While much of the current research in memory forensics has been focused on low-level data, there is a need for research to extract high-level data from physical memory as a means of providing forensic investigators with greater insight into a target system. This paper outlines the need for further research into memory forensic techniques. In particular it stresses the need for methods and techniques for understanding context on a system and also as a means of augmenting other data sources to provide a more complete and efficient searching of investigations. \'a9 2009 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Digital evidence;  Digital investigation;  Electronic evidence;  RAM forensics;  Volatile memory forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1089\
B\'f6hme, R., Freiling, F.C., Gloe, T., Kirchner, M.\
56213351900;13007598800;23134442800;23135003200;\
Multimedia forensics is not computer forensics\
(2009) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 5718 LNCS, pp. 90-103. Cited 30 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-70349303469&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-03521-0_9&partnerID=40&md5=6c7fc989b5dce5bbe006da15eb7ee4e9\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-03521-0_9\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Systems Architecture, Technische Universit\'e4t Dresden, Dresden 01062, Germany; \
Laboratory for Dependable Distributed Systems, University of Mannheim, Mannheim 68131, Germany\
ABSTRACT: The recent popularity of research on topics of multimedia forensics justifies reflections on the definition of the field. This paper devises an ontology that structures forensic disciplines by their primary domain of evidence. In this sense, both multimedia forensics and computer forensics belong to the class of digital forensics, but they differ notably in the underlying observer model that defines the forensic investigator's view on (parts of) reality, which itself is not fully cognizable. Important consequences on the reliability of probative facts emerge with regard to available counter-forensic techniques: while perfect concealment of traces is possible for computer forensics, this level of certainty cannot be expected for manipulations of sensor data. We cite concrete examples and refer to established techniques to support our arguments. \'a9 2009 Springer Berlin Heidelberg.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1090\
Hayes, D.R., Qureshi, S.\
34067699000;25822643300;\
Implications of microsoft vista operating system for computer forensics investigations\
(2009) 2009 IEEE Long Island Systems, Applications and Technology Conference, LISAT 2009, art. no. 5031562, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-70349277337&doi=10.1109%2fLISAT.2009.5031562&partnerID=40&md5=12c25ba96f73d4090eb4d6ff1c382185\
\
DOI: 10.1109/LISAT.2009.5031562\
AFFILIATIONS: Pace University, New York, NY 10038, United States\
ABSTRACT: With the growing importance of computer-related evidence today, it is important for law enforcement, prosecutors and computer forensics investigators to understand changes in their technical environment that are impacting the discovery and nature of evidence. Microsoft's Vista ("Vista") is one change that has brought new challenges for digital investigations, particularly relating to new mechanisms of encryption and general security. This paper will identify those challenges and prescribe possible solutions. More specifically this research proposes practical ways in which the digital investigator can retrieve critical file metadata, explore file systems and record log files. The focus of this paper will be on the changes to Microsoft's New Technology File System (NTFS). In general, Vista has placed a greater emphasis on file sharing across the Internet so XML file formats are more pervasive. Security, and more specifically encryption, is more prevalent in Vista and so this paper will focus on changes to Windows Mail. Although there is no empirical evidence, it appears as though prosecutors heavily rely on electronic mail evidence. With the continuous expansion in size of flash memory, it was imperative to note changes to the digital footprint left by USB thumbdrives as well as the impact of Microsoft's new volatile memory expansion tool - readyboost. Log files are also a crucial source of evidence in computer forensics investigations and these are discussed in great detail as changes in Vista have changed the nature of this evidence. This research paper will discuss the relevance of changes to evidence in Vista by highlighting the use of certain evidentiary files in court cases. Finally, the implications of changes brought about by Vista will be made apparent through experiments conducted with bit-stream imaging tools utilized by law enforcement and other computer forensics examiners. Vista has notable implications for computer forensics investigations. However, this research will prepare the digital investigator for the transition to the Vista operating system and the transformation of digital evidence associated with this new platform. \'a9 2009 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Computer security;  Operating system;  Vista\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1091\
Stork, D.G., Meador, S., Noble, P.\
7005595431;34872857600;34873099700;\
Painted or printed? Correlation analysis of the brickwork in Jan van der Heyden's View of Oudezijds Voorburgwal with the Oude Kerk in Amsterdam\
(2009) Proceedings of SPIE - The International Society for Optical Engineering, 7240, art. no. 72401O, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-63549149891&doi=10.1117%2f12.817186&partnerID=40&md5=d4543a20071c8d98c705c89a2a8289ac\
\
DOI: 10.1117/12.817186\
AFFILIATIONS: Ricoh Innovations, 2882 Sand Hill Road, Menlo Park, CA 94025, United States; \
Department of Statistics, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, United States; \
Department of Computer Science, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, United States; \
Conservation and Curatorial Department, Royal Picture Gallery Mauritshuis, The Hague, Netherlands\
ABSTRACT: The title painting, in the Royal Picture Gallery Mauritshuis in The Hague, is remarkable in that every figure and every part of every building is clearly discernible in the minutest detail: decorations, weathercock, bells in the church tower, and so on. Thousands of individual bricks are visible in the buildings at the left and the question has been posed by art scholars as to whether these bricks were laboriously painted individually or instead more efficiently pressed to the painting by some form of template, for instance by pressing a wet print against the painting. Close inspection of the painting in raking light reveals that the mortar work is rendered in thick, protruding paint, but such visual analysis, while highly suggestive, does not prove van der Heyden employed counterproofing; as such evidence must be sought in order to corroborate this hypothesis. If some form of counterproofing was employed by the artist, there might be at least some repeated patterns of the bricks, as the master print master was shifted from place to place in the painting. Visual search for candidate repeated passages of bricks by art scholars has proven tedious and unreliable. For this reason, we instead used a method based on computer forensics for detecting nearly identical repeated patterns within an image: discrete cross-correlation. Specifically, we preprocessed a high-resolution photograph of the painting and used thresholding and image processing to enhance the brickwork. Then we convolved small portions of this processed image of the brickwork with all areas of brickwork throughout the painting. Our results reveal only small regions of moderate cross-correlation. Most importantly, the limited spatial extent of matching regions shows that the peaks found are not significantly higher than would occur by chance in a hand-executed work or in one created using a single counterproof. To our knowledge, ours is the first use of cross-correlation to search for repeated patterns in a realist painting to answer a question in the history of art. \'a9 2009 SPIE-IS&T.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Compositing;  Digital cross-correlation;  Image forensics;  Jan van der Heyden;  Painting analysis;  View of Oudezijds Voorburgwal with the Oude Kerk in Amsterdam\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1092\
Carrier, B.D.\
6603924492;\
Digital forensics works\
(2009) IEEE Security and Privacy, 7 (2), art. no. 4812153, pp. 26-29. Cited 15 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-65249186371&doi=10.1109%2fMSP.2009.35&partnerID=40&md5=a74c7dd90dfadbc6872c783efd68cbd1\
\
DOI: 10.1109/MSP.2009.35\
AFFILIATIONS: Basis Technology\
ABSTRACT: Some of the challenges faced in the digital investigation processes that follow rules that allow the results to be entered into the legal court are presented. Software needs to interact with the operating system, which a rootkit could have compromised to hide evidence from the investigator. Applying techniques from information retrieval and data mining could help investigators in sorting through the increasing amount of data encountered. Determination of assigning certainty values to digital event reconstruction is also a challenge faced in digital investigation. Investigators must consider the configuration of OS and an installation of any malicious software. Linking activity back to the specific person is also a great challenge when computers have multiple users and attackers can cause a computer to perform illegal activities.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Digital investigations;  Security and privacy\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1093\
Farid, H.\
7007029048;\
Exposing digital forgeries from JPEG ghosts\
(2009) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 4 (1), art. no. 4773149, pp. 154-160. Cited 318 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-60449117421&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2008.2012215&partnerID=40&md5=dd392612da17e11ef08e657e69396d34\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2008.2012215\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH 03755, United States\
ABSTRACT: When creating a digital forgery, it is often necessary to combine several images, for example, when compositing one person's head onto another person's body. If these images were originally of different JPEG compression quality, then the digital composite may contain a trace of the original compression qualities. To this end, we describe a technique to detect whether the part of an image was initially compressed at a lower quality than the rest of the image. This approach is applicable to images of high and low quality as well as resolution. \'a9 2009 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Digital tampering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1094\
Ye, S., Sun, Q., Chang, E.-C.\
7202086890;7402036522;7401837454;\
Exposing digital forgeries by detecting inconsistencies in image quality\
(2009) Multimedia Communication Security: Recent Advances, pp. 167-196. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85058925657&partnerID=40&md5=54fa7fe4c5d5d4fc50135e3b1d044eb2\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Ecole Polytechnique F\'e9d\'e9rale de Lausanne (EPFL)CH-1015, Switzerland; \
Institute for Infocomm Research119613, Singapore; \
School of Computing, National University of Singapore117543, Singapore\
ABSTRACT: The generation and manipulation of digital images is made simple by widely available digital cameras and image processing software. Image authentication is a significant technique to protect the trustworthiness of digital images by verifying their authenticities. Digital image forensics is an emerging technique for passively assessing image authenticity, which works in the absence of any digital watermark or signature. In this chapter, an image forensics scheme is proposed to detect digital image forgeries by detecting inconsistencies based on noreference image quality measures. Although a forged image often leaves no visual clues of having been tampered with, the tampering operations may disturb its intrinsic quality consistency. Under this assumption, the proposed image forensics technique detects image quality inconsistencies found in tampered images by measuring blocking artifacts or sharpness. To measure the quality inconsistencies, we propose to measure the blocking artifacts caused by JPEG compression based on quantization table estimation using the power spectrum of the DCT coefficient histogram, and to measure the image sharpness based on the normalized Lipschitz exponent of wavelet modulus local maxima. Experimental results have shown the effectiveness of the proposed measures in detecting quality inconsistencies for exposing digital forgeries. \'a9 2008 Nova Science Publishers, Inc. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book Chapter\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1095\
Forte, D.V., Cavallini, A., Maruti, C., Losio, L., Orlandi, T., Zambelli, M.\
10242903100;25930831300;15926163200;57205089359;25931036400;15926449100;\
PTK: An alternative advanced interface for the sleuth kit\
(2009) Advances in Soft Computing, 53, pp. 27-34. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-58149123815&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-540-88181-0_4&partnerID=40&md5=9a780f21bf76550938bf317200a621de\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-88181-0_4\
AFFILIATIONS: The IRItaly Project at DFlabs, Italy\
ABSTRACT: PTK is a new open-source tool for all complex digital investigations. It represents an alternative to the well-known but now obsolete front-end Autopsy Forensic Browser. This latter tool has a number of inadequacies taking the form of a cumbersome user interface, complicated case and evidence management, and a non-interactive timeline that is difficult to consult. A number of important functions are also lacking, such as an effective bookmarking system or a section for file analysis in graphic format. The need to accelerate evidence analysis through greater automation has prompted DFLabs to design and develop this new tool. PTK provides a new interface for The Sleuth Kit (TSK) suite of tools and also adds numerous extensions and features, one of which is an internal indexing engine that is capable of carrying out complex evidence pre-analysis processes. PTK was written from scratch using Ajax technology for graphic contents and a MySql database management system server for saving indexing results and investigator-generated bookmarks. This feature allows a plurality of users to work simultaneously on the same or different cases, accessing previously indexed contents. The ability to work in parallel greatly reduces analysis times. These characteristics are described in greater detail below. PTK includes a dedicated "Extension Management" module that allows existing or newly developed tools to be integrated into it, effectively expanding its analysis and automation capacity. \'a9 2009 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Autopsy forensic;  Computer forensics;  Incident response;  Open source;  SleuthKit\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1096\
2nd International Conference on Forensics in Telecommunications, Information and Multimedia, e-Forensics 2009\
(2009) Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, LNICST, 8, 219 p. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85036565473&partnerID=40&md5=69057e6bf9fcbf823883ea6e5feb0ed4\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 25 papers. The special focus in this conference is on Forensics in Telecommunications, Information and Multimedia. The topics include: Distinguishing between camera and scanned images by means of frequency analysis; developing speaker recognition system: From prototype to practical application; A preliminary approach to the forensic analysis of an ultraportable ASUS Eee PC; a provable security scheme of id-based threshold decryption; Analysis of sensor photo response non-uniformity in RAW images; audit log for forensic photography; authenticating medical images through repetitive index modulation based watermarking; cyber forensics ontology for cyber criminal investigation; decomposed photo response non-uniformity for digital forensic analysis; forensics for detecting P2P network originated mp3 files on the user device; detection of block artifacts for digital forensic analysis; vocal forgery in forensic sciences; complying across continents: At the intersection of litigation rights and privacy rights; digital identity \'96 the legal person?; surveillance and datenschutz in virtual environments; Erratum: Forensics in telecommunications, information and multimedia (Lecture Notes of the Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering, LNICST, (2009) 10.1007/978-3-642-02312-5); image encryption using chaotic signal and max\'96heap tree; investigating encrypted material; legal and technical implications of collecting wireless data as an evidence source; medical image authentication using dpt watermarking: A preliminary attempt; robust correctness testing for digital forensic tools; surveillance applications of biologically-inspired smart cameras; The development of a generic framework for the forensic analysis of SCADA and process control systems.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1097\
Swaminathan, A., Wu, M., Liu, K.J.R.\
55223109800;55264847200;7404200118;\
Component forensics\
(2009) IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, 26 (2), pp. 38-48. Cited 23 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85032751005&doi=10.1109%2fMSP.2008.931076&partnerID=40&md5=c85e588b0798df978e8920c7d56ef9fd\
\
DOI: 10.1109/MSP.2008.931076\
AFFILIATIONS: Qualcomm Incorporated, San Diego, CA, United States; \
University of Maryland, College Park, MD, United States\
ABSTRACT: Visual sensor technologies have experienced tremendous growth in recent decades, and digital devices are becoming ubiquitous. Digital images taken by various imaging devices have been used in a growing number of applications, from military and reconnaissance to medical diagnosis and consumer photography. Consequently, a series of new forensic issues arise amidst such rapid advancement and widespread adoption of imaging technologies. For example, one can readily ask what kinds of hardware and software components as well as their parameters have been employed inside these devices? Given a digital image, which imaging sensor or which brand of sensor was used to acquire the image? How was the image acquired? Was it captured using a digital camera, cell phone camera, image scanner, or was it created artificially using an imageediting software? Has the image undergone any manipulation after capture? Is it authentic, or has it been tampered in any way? Does it contain any hidden information or steganographic data? Many of these forensic questions are related to tracing the origin of the digital image to its creation process. Evidence obtained from such analysis would provide useful forensic information to law enforcement, security, and intelligence agencies. Knowledge of image acquisition techniques can also help answer further forensic questions regarding the nature of additional processing that the image might have undergone after capture. \'a9 2009 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1098\
Slay, J., Lin, Y.-C., Turnbull, B., Beckett, J., Lin, P.\
15756115700;24401406200;15756106400;47861765800;56895468500;\
Towards a formalization of digital forensics\
(2009) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 306, pp. 37-47. Cited 16 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84943542202&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-642-04155-6_3&partnerID=40&md5=e1c4c8276eb131310054c7c12e1396de\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-04155-6_3\
ABSTRACT: While some individuals have referred to digital forensics as an art, the literature of the discipline suggests a trend toward the formalization of digital forensics as a forensic science. Questions about the quality of digital evidence and forensic soundness continue to be raised by researchers and practitioners in order to ensure the trustworthiness of digital evidence and its value to the courts. This paper reviews the development of digital forensic models, procedures and standards to lay a foundation for the discipline. It also points to new work that provides validation models through a complete mapping of the discipline. \'a9 IFIP International Federation for Information Processing 2009.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensic models;  Standards;  Validation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1099\
Ridder, C.K.\
6602779794;\
Evidentiary implications of potential security weaknesses in forensic software\
(2009) International Journal of Digital Crime and Forensics, 1 (3), pp. 80-91. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-78651595847&doi=10.4018%2fjdcf.2009070105&partnerID=40&md5=86576b5e45728cd9b835356a68efcef2\
\
DOI: 10.4018/jdcf.2009070105\
AFFILIATIONS: Stanford University, United States\
ABSTRACT: Computer forensic software is used by lawyers and law enforcement to collect and preserve data in a "forensic image" so that it can be analyzed without changing the original media, and to preserve the chain of custody of the evidence. To the extent there are vulnerabilities in this software, an attacker may be able to hide or alter the data available to a forensic analyst, causing courts to render judgments based on inaccurate or incomplete evidence. There are a number of legal doctrines designed to ensure that evidence presented to courts is authentic, accurate and reliable, but thus far courts have not applied them with the possibility of security weaknesses in forensic software in mind. This article examines how courts may react to such claims, and recommends strategies that attorneys and courts can use to ensure that electronic evidence presented in court is both admissible andfair to litigants. Copyright \'a9 2009, IGI Global.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Admissible;  Authenticity;  Bestevidence;  Daubert;  Evidence;  Forensic;  Hacking;  Reliability;  Security;  Vulnerability\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1100\
Chennamma, H.R., Rangarajan, L., Rao, M.S.\
36805586300;6602167557;57224602206;\
Robust near duplicate image matching for digital image forensics\
(2009) International Journal of Digital Crime and Forensics, 1 (3), pp. 62-79. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-78651554452&doi=10.4018%2fjdcf.2009070104&partnerID=40&md5=5e93f40a9bfca9bfbd0f5b6a0c4c4b69\
\
DOI: 10.4018/jdcf.2009070104\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Mysore, India; \
Indian Academy of Forensic Sciences, India\
ABSTRACT: Local invariant key point extraction has recently emerged as an attractive approach for detecting near duplicate images. Near duplicate images can be: (i) perceptually identical images (e.g. allowing for change in color balance, change in brightness, compression artifacts, contrast adjustment, rotation, cropping, filtering, scaling etc.), (ii) images of the same 3D scene (from different viewpoints). The requirements for identifying near duplicate images vary according to the application. In this paper we focus on image matching strategy that will assist in the detection of forged (copy-paste forgery) images. So far, no specific image matching strategy exists for this application. The state of the art methodologies tend to generate many false positives. In this paper we have introduced a novel matching strategy for pattern matching of key point distributions. Typical experiments conducted with real world images demonstrate success in near duplicate image retrieval for the application of digital image forensics. Proposed method outperforms some of the existing methods and is computationally efficient. Copyright \'a9 2009, IGI Global.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Angle and line ratio statistics;  Detecting copyright violations;  Localinvariantfeatures;  Near duplicate image matching;  Spatial consistency\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1101\
Wang, R., Ping, X.\
55717760700;7006492196;\
Detection of resampling based on singular value decomposition\
(2009) Proceedings of the 5th International Conference on Image and Graphics, ICIG 2009, art. no. 5437877, pp. 879-884. Cited 14 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77952245001&doi=10.1109%2fICIG.2009.46&partnerID=40&md5=0bcfa8e5a1be7089fcd95174966bb9aa\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICIG.2009.46\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Information Science, Zhengzhou Information Science and Technology Institute, Zhengzhou, China\
ABSTRACT: Blind digital image forensics, aims at identifying the authenticity and origin of the digital images without any embedding information beforehand, has become one of the research hot spots recently. Resampling, as a kind of tampering manipulation, will change the statistical features of the images. In this paper, the specific statistical changes brought into the linear dependencies among image pixels are analyzed by singular value decomposition. A blind and efficient method capable of finding traces of resampling and interpolation based on singular value decomposition is proposed. The performance of resampling detection shown in experimental results has indicated the validity of the algorithm. \'a9 2009 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1102\
Guo, Y., Slay, J., Beckett, J.\
56137498400;15756115700;47861765800;\
Validation and verification of computer forensic software tools-Searching Function\
(2009) Digital Investigation, 6 (SUPPL.), pp. S12-S22. Cited 43 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-68949135999&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2009.06.015&partnerID=40&md5=e10856eab97bb89dd04c94bd2527cb12\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2009.06.015\
AFFILIATIONS: Defence and Systems Institute, University of South Australia, Mawson Lakes Campus, Mawson Lakes, Adelaide, SA, 5095, Australia\
ABSTRACT: The process of using automated software has served law enforcement and the courts very well, and experienced detectives and investigators have been able to use their well-developed policing skills, in conjunction with the automated software, so as to provide sound evidence. However, the growth in the computer forensic field has created a demand for new software (or increased functionality to existing software) and a means to verify that this software is truly "forensic" i.e. capable of meeting the requirements of the 'trier of fact'. In this work, we present a scientific and systemical description of the computer forensic discipline through mapping fundamental functions required in the computer forensic investigation process. Based on the function mapping, we propose a more detailed functionality orientated validation and verification framework of computer forensic tools. We focus this paper on the searching function. We specify the requirements and develop a corresponding reference set to test any tools that possess the searching function. \'a9 2009 Digital Forensic Research Workshop.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Electronic evidence;  Searching;  Validation;  Verification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1103\
Hejazi, S.M., Debbabi, M., Talhi, C.\
25927104100;57203104171;9275987500;\
Automated windows memory file extraction for cyber forensics investigation\
(2008) Journal of Digital Forensic Practice, 2 (3), pp. 117-131. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-57849107159&doi=10.1080%2f15567280802552829&partnerID=40&md5=8ccc5eb7c6e0908de1bb1a0d56388f05\
\
DOI: 10.1080/15567280802552829\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Security Laboratory, Concordia University, Montreal, QC, Canada\
ABSTRACT: In digital forensics, the first step to conducting an investigation is to acquire evidence that is most related to the case. Containing most recently accessed data and information about the status of a system, physical memory is a valuable source of digital evidence. When a process runs or accesses a file, all or some parts of the process's executable or accessed data file are mapped into the physical memory. In this article, we propose various methods to find files and extract them from memory in order to rebuild executable and data files that existed in physical memory at the time of incident. We developed a memory analysis plug-in that uses this automated memory file extraction. Using this tool, we have been able to extract a wide range of data file types, including text, PDF, Java Archives (JAR), various logs, EVT (system event-log files, used by the system event viewer), HTML and many more. Investigators can use the result of this research in order to (1) compare the files found on disk with those extracted from memory to find possible tampering or (2) reconstruct those files that no longer exist on the disk. In addition, they can find the last file modifications that have not been mapped out to the corresponding files on the disk. Memory extracted files can be used for the purpose of correlation analysis along with other sources of evidence such as application or network log files, E-mail files, and data files found on disks.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyber forensics;  File extraction;  Physical memory;  Windows memory analysis\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1104\
Swanson, I., Williams, P.A.H.\
55420261300;7404954997;\
Virtual environments support insider security violations\
(2008) Proceedings of the 6th Australian Digital Forensics Conference, pp. 173-180. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84867702259&partnerID=40&md5=f7f9126c512c3710841a24df4efcd361\
\
AFFILIATIONS: SECAU Security Research Centre, Edith Cowan University, Australia\
ABSTRACT: This paper describes an investigation into how an employee using a virtual environment can circumvent any or all of the security, policies and procedures within an organization. The paper discusses the fundamental issues that organizations must address to be able to detect such an attack. Attacks of this nature may be malicious with intent to cause disruption by flooding the network or disabling specific equipment, or non-malicious by quietly gathering critical information such as user names and passwords or a colleague's internet banking details. Identification of potential residual evidence following an attack is presented. Such evidence may be used to speculate or verify an attack incident occurrence. Additionally, the forensic extraction of any such evidence is discussed. Finally, the paper raises the possibility of a virtual machine being used as an anti-forensic tool to destroy incriminating evidence in such circumstances.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Antivirus;  Computer forensics;  Security;  Virtual machine\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1105\
Choo, K.-K.R.\
57208540261;\
Organised crime groups in cyberspace: A typology\
(2008) Trends in Organized Crime, 11 (3), pp. 270-295. Cited 78 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77957695303&doi=10.1007%2fs12117-008-9038-9&partnerID=40&md5=7ad9ec4c1e4e63f52505f1eb2dcb5620\
\
DOI: 10.1007/s12117-008-9038-9\
AFFILIATIONS: Australian Institute of Criminology, GPO Box 2944, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Three categories of organised groups that exploit advances in information and communications technologies (ICT) to infringe legal and regulatory controls: (1) traditional organised criminal groups which make use of ICT to enhance their terrestrial criminal activities; (2) organised cybercriminal groups which operate exclusively online; and (3) organised groups of ideologically and politically motivated individuals who make use of ICT to facilitate their criminal conduct are described in this article. The need for law enforcement to have in-depth knowledge of computer forensic principles, guidelines, procedures, tools, and techniques, as well as anti-forensic tools and techniques will become more pronounced with the increased likelihood of digital content being a source of disputes or forming part of underlying evidence to support or refute a dispute in judicial proceedings. There is also a need for new strategies of response and further research on analysing organised criminal activities in cyberspace. \'a9 2008 Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cybercrime;  Digital evidence;  Organised crime groups;  Technology-enabled crime\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1106\
Ryu, S.-J., Lee, H.-Y., Cho, I.-W., Lee, H.-K.\
55420796500;8552114700;35112976600;7501475723;\
Document forgery detection with SVM classifier and image quality measures\
(2008) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 5353 LNCS, pp. 486-495. Cited 20 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-70350680518&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-540-89796-5_50&partnerID=40&md5=cf0128f06757df9b8993c8f1d332e40d\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-89796-5_50\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of EECS, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, Guseong-dong, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, South Korea; \
School of Computer and Software Engineering, Kumoh National Institute of Technology, Yangho-dong, Gumi, Gyeongbuk, South Korea; \
Anti-counterfeit Center, Technology Research Institute, Korea Minting and Security Printing Corporation, 35 Gajeong-dong, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: This paper presents a detection scheme for a fraudulent document made by printers. The fraud document is indistinguishable by the naked eye from a genuine document because of the technological advances in printing methods. Even though we cannot find any visual evidence of forgery, the fraud document includes inherent device features. We propose a method to uncover these features. 17 image quality measures are applied to discriminate between genuine and fake documents. The results of each measure are used as training and testing parameters of SVM classifier to determine fake documents. Preliminary experimental results are presented based on the fraud gift voucher made by several color printers. \'a9 2008 Springer.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Forgery detection;  Image quality measures;  Printer identification;  SVM classifier\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1107\
Proceedings - 3rd International Annual Workshop on Digital Forensics and Incidents Analysis, WDFIA 2008\
(2008) Proceedings - 3rd International Annual Workshop on Digital Forensics and Incidents Analysis, WDFIA 2008, 80 p. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-69949107135&partnerID=40&md5=6e854ee956c1a1e15f76faa2452be610\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 8 papers. The topics discussed include: cyber-crime investigations: complex collaborative decision making; determining culpability in investigations of malicious E-mail dissemination within the organisation; two-dimensional evidence reliability amplification process model for digital forensics; global positioning systems: analysis principles and sources of evidence in user devices; malicious hosts detection through truth powered approach; forensic value of backscatter from Email spam; detecting and manipulating compressed alternate data streams in a forensics investigation; and an investigation into the development of an anti-forensic tool to obscure USB flash drive device information on a windows XP platform.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1108\
Johnson, M.K., Farid, H.\
8579839200;7007029048;\
Detecting photographic cmposites of people\
(2008) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 5041 LNCS, pp. 19-33. Cited 32 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-58449107098&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-540-92238-4_3&partnerID=40&md5=a8404bc841b4daf21a117043ef4ff844\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92238-4_3\
AFFILIATIONS: Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH 03755, United States\
ABSTRACT: The compositing of two or more people into a single image is a common form of manipulation. We describe how such composites can be detected by estimating a camera's intrinsic parameters from the image of a person's eyes. Differences in these parameters across the image are used as evidence of tampering. \'a9 2008 Springer Berlin Heidelberg.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Digital Tampering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1109\
Shi, Y.Q., Chen, C., Xuan, G., Su, W.\
7404964736;36553801700;7003407378;55724077700;\
Steganalysis versus splicing detection\
(2008) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 5041 LNCS, pp. 158-172. Cited 33 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-58349116041&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-540-92238-4_13&partnerID=40&md5=440ba4fd89dfde7a6b07c3e15a2fc900\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-92238-4_13\
AFFILIATIONS: New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark, NJ 07102, United States; \
Tongji University, Shanghai, 200092, China\
ABSTRACT: Aiming at detecting secret information hidden in a given image using steganographic tools, steganalysis has been of interest for years. In particular, universal steganalysis, not limited to attacking a specific steganographic tool, is of extensive interests due to its practicality. Recently, splicing detection, another important area in digital forensics has attracted increasing attention. Is there any relationship between steganalysis and splicing detection? Is it possible to apply universal steganalysis methodologies to splicing detection? In this paper, we address these intact and yet interesting questions. Our analysis and experiments have demonstrated that, on the one hand, steganography and splicing have different goals and strategies, hence, generally causing different statistical artifacts on images. However, on the other hand, both of them make the touched (stego or spliced) image different from the corresponding original (natural) image. Therefore, natural image model based on a set of carefully selected statistical features under the machine learning framework can be used for steganalysis and splicing detection. It is shown in this paper that some successful universal steganalytic schemes can make promising progress in splicing detection if applied properly. A more advanced natural image model developed from these state-of-the-art steganalysis methods is thereafter presented. Furthermore, a concrete implementation of the proposed model is applied to the Columbia Image Splicing Detection Evaluation Dataset, which has achieved an accuracy of 92%, indicating a significant advancement in splicing detection. \'a9 2008 Springer Berlin Heidelberg.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Natural image model;  Splicing detection;  Steganalysis;  Steganography;  Tampering detection\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1110\
Jo, S., Hong, D.\
16642491500;9043854700;\
Defense technology of anti forensic\
(2008) 2008 International Conference on Control, Automation and Systems, ICCAS 2008, art. no. 4694617, pp. 884-887. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-58149092278&doi=10.1109%2fICCAS.2008.4694617&partnerID=40&md5=e3870d720f7a087b70a7aa5af6f77860\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICCAS.2008.4694617\
AFFILIATIONS: Cryptography Research Team, ETRI, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: An anti-forensic is the technology which it collects witness data which are disadvantageous for a self among data stored in the computer or the mobile equipment or doesn't analyze and obstructs a forensic. The data enciphering which it is one among the anti-forensic technique codes when storing data in a disc. It is the decoded when reading data technique. The various programs of microsoft Office, adobe PDF, winRar, alzip, and etc. provide the encryption of data. In these environments, the knowledge of over certain level about the digital device like a computer and ability of technique are needed in order to collect evidences. Particularly, it inquires into the technique of reaction which confronts with data hiding and modulation, evidence deletion, data enciphering, BitLocker drive encryption and can find out the evidence of the digital forensic. \'a9 ICROS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensic;  BitLocker\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1111\
Forte, D.\
10242903100;\
Dealing with forensic software vulnerabilities: is anti-forensics a real danger?\
(2008) Network Security, 2008 (12), pp. 18-20. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-57549118355&doi=10.1016%2fS1353-4858%2808%2970143-0&partnerID=40&md5=7941e94a0b52437b2d75957743ea7385\
\
DOI: 10.1016/S1353-4858(08)70143-0\
ABSTRACT: The idea that malicious hackers could theoretically 'fatally compromise' forensic software and evidence with a few exploits has been on practitioners' minds since the beginning of the millennium. Conferences such as the Digital Forensics Research Workshop have generated serious discussion of the technical and legal implications of such theories. According to a paper published by the Stanford Law School (2007), "to the extent there are insufficient 'external' sources of authenticity, a proponent of forensic evidence will need to demonstrate the accuracy of the forensic software itself."1 Federal Rule of Evidence 901 provides that evidence may be authenticated by "describing a process or system used to produce a result and showing that the process or system produces an accurate result."2. \'a9 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1112\
Hayes, D.R., Qureshi, S.\
34067699000;25822643300;\
A framework for computer forensics investigations involving Microsoft Vista\
(2008) 2008 IEEE Long Island Systems, Applications and Technology Conference, LISAT 2008, art. no. 4638951, . Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-56349088497&doi=10.1109%2fLISAT.2008.4638951&partnerID=40&md5=286a44b7647867919ddb425830c8b9ec\
\
DOI: 10.1109/LISAT.2008.4638951\
AFFILIATIONS: Pace University\
ABSTRACT: The technical environment continues to change and impact the work of digital investigations. This research provides a framework within which computer forensics investigators can take advantage of new or different types of evidence from Microsoft's Vista operating system ("Vista"). Moreover, this paper will also indicate the many challenges that investigators will encounter when faced with the Vista platform. The focus herein will be on changes associated with new security, encryption and file restoration features. These features vary according to the version of Vista and these differences will also be discussed. This research will also detail the integrity of data recovery procedures through detailed experiments used to identify how data could be manipulated by a perpetrator in Vista as compared to previous versions of Microsoft's operating systems. Ultimately, this paper will indicate that enhancements in security and encryption associated with Encrypted File System (EFS) as well as BitLocker Drive Encryption are very problematic for investigators. Vista has serious implications for computer forensics investigations. Nevertheless, this research will guide the digital investigator through the labyrinth of new challenges, to effect a more thorough investigation of digital evidence.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: BitLocker;  Computer forensics;  Computer security;  Encryption;  Operating systems;  Vista\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1113\
Kim, Y., Bang, J., Lee, S., Lim, J.\
14007197800;24342720800;36063408400;8969717400;\
Detection of hidden information in forensic tools\
(2008) Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Information Security and Assurance, ISA 2008, art. no. 4511571, pp. 248-252. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-51349118596&doi=10.1109%2fISA.2008.34&partnerID=40&md5=86ba6295f8f259e3f0bc3180e2bf02c6\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISA.2008.34\
AFFILIATIONS: Center for Information Security Technologies, Graduate School of Information Management and Security, Korea University, Seoul, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Forensic tools are used to create critical evidence in computer-related crimes investigation. The evidence has an effect on judgment by the court and it requires verification of forensic tools. The verification should require an agreement of law enforcement organizations. Computer Forensic Tool Testing (CFTT) Verification project provides a measure of assurance that the tools used in the investigations produce valid results [1]. CFTT suggests requirements, assertions and test cases document for verification of forensic tools. There are hidden data in acquired image however CFTT do not deal with detection test on hidden data. Detection technology depends on cover carriers, such as images, audio, text or code represented digitally, hold the hidden data. This paper proposes preprocesses for detection of hidden data to be existed or not by forensic tools. \'a9 2008 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1114\
Sandler, D., Derr, K., Crosby, S., Wallach R, D.S.\
7005895639;24757731400;13008687700;7202034962;\
Finding the evidence in tamper-evident logs\
(2008) Proceedings - SADFE 2008 3rd International Workshop on Systematic Approaches to Digital Forensic Engineering, art. no. 4545368, pp. 69-75. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-50849085212&doi=10.1109%2fSADFE.2008.22&partnerID=40&md5=2f8a67a20862e822304726a52569abbe\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SADFE.2008.22\
AFFILIATIONS: Rice University\
ABSTRACT: Secure logs are powerful tools for building systems that must resist forgery, prove temporal relationships, and stand up to forensic scrutiny. The proofs of order and integrity encoded in these tamper-evident chronological records, typically built using hash chaining, may be used by applications to enforce operating constraints or sound alarms at suspicious activity. However, existing research stops short of discussing how one might go about automatically determining whether a given secure log satisfies a given set of constraints on its records. In this paper, we discuss our work on QUERIFIER, a tool that accomplishes this. It can be used offline as an analyzer for static logs, or online during the runtime of a logging application. QUERIFIER rules are written in a flexible pattern-matching language that adapts to arbitrary log structures; given a set of rules and available log data, QUERIFIER presents evidence of correctness and offers counterexamples if desired. We describe QUERIFIER's implementation and offer early performance results. \'a9 2008 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1115\
Erbacher, R.F.\
7003584526;\
The forensic validity of visual analytics\
(2008) Proceedings of SPIE - The International Society for Optical Engineering, 6809, art. no. 68090H, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-43249107521&doi=10.1117%2f12.786400&partnerID=40&md5=d6ee38a9625f1732d471ae928ea693af\
\
DOI: 10.1117/12.786400\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, UMC 4205, Utah State University, Logan, UT 84322, United States\
ABSTRACT: The wider use of visualization and visual analytics in wide ranging fields has led to the need for visual analytics capabilities to be legally admissible, especially when applied to digital forensics. This brings the need to consider legal implications when performing visual analytics, an issue not traditionally examined in visualization and visual analytics techniques and research. While digital data is generally admissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence [10][21], a comprehensive validation of the digital evidence is considered prudent. A comprehensive validation requires validation of the digital data under rules for authentication, hearsay, best evidence rule, and privilege. Additional issues with digital data arise when exploring digital data related to admissibility and the validity of what information was examined, to what extent, and whether the analysis process was sufficiently covered by a search warrant. For instance, a search warrant generally covers very narrow requirements as to what law enforcement is allowed to examine and acquire during an investigation. When searching a hard drive for child pornography, how admissible is evidence of an unrelated crime, i.e. drug dealing. This is further complicated by the concept of "in plain view". When performing an analysis of a hard drive what would be considered "in plain view" when analyzing a hard drive. The purpose of this paper is to discuss the issues of digital forensics and the related issues as they apply to visual analytics and identify how visual analytics techniques fit into the digital forensics analysis process, how visual analytics techniques can improve the legal admissibility of digital data, and identify what research is needed to further improve this process. The goal of this paper is to open up consideration of legal ramifications among the visualization community; the author is not a lawyer and the discussions are not meant to be inclusive of all differences in laws between states and countries. \'a9 2008 SPIE-IS&T.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Interactive feedback loop;  Legal issues;  Visual analytics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1116\
Luo, W., Wu, M., Huang, J.\
18042301700;55264847200;56057258200;\
MPEG recompression detection based on block artifacts\
(2008) Proceedings of SPIE - The International Society for Optical Engineering, 6819, art. no. 68190X, . Cited 57 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-42949116929&doi=10.1117%2f12.767112&partnerID=40&md5=b0f076f99ea832e8c9be9eaf00b7f84a\
\
DOI: 10.1117/12.767112\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Computer Science, Sun Yat-Sen Univ., Guangzhou, GD, China; \
Dept. of ECE, Univ. of Maryland, College Park, MD, United States\
ABSTRACT: With sophisticated video editing technologies, it is becoming increasingly easy to tamper digital video without leaving visual clues. One of the common tampering operations on video is to remove some frames and then re-encode the resulting video. In this paper, we propose a new method for detecting this type of tampering by exploring the temporal patterns of the block artifacts in video sequences. We show that MPEG compression introduces different block artifacts into various types of frames and that the strength of the block artifacts as a function over time has a regular pattern for a given group of pictures (GOP) structure. When some frames are removed from an MPEG video file and the file is then recompressed, the block artifacts introduced by the previous compression would remain and affect the average of block artifact strength of the recompressed one in such a way that depends on the number of deleted frames and the type of GOP used previously. We propose a feature curve to reveal the compression history of an MPEG video file with a given GOP structure, and use it as evidence to detect tampering. Experimental results evaluated on common video benchmark clips demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. \'a9 2008 SPIE-IS&T.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Block artifacts;  Digital forensics;  MPEG recompression\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1117\
Monteiro, S.D.S., Erbacher, R.F.\
24758974700;7003584526;\
An authentication and validation mechanism for analyzing syslogs forensically\
(2008) Operating Systems Review (ACM), 42 (3), pp. 41-50. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77952245945&doi=10.1145%2f1368506.1368513&partnerID=40&md5=a3630f7ad8f359c03daa38221531da4c\
\
DOI: 10.1145/1368506.1368513\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, UMC 4205, Utah State University, Logan, UT 84322, United States\
ABSTRACT: This research proposes a novel technique for authenticating and validating syslogs for forensic analysis. This technique uses a modification of the Needham Schroeder protocol, which uses nonces (numbers used only once) and public keys. Syslogs, which were developed from an event-logging perspective and not from an evidence-sustaining one, are system treasure maps that chart out and pinpoint attacks and attack attempts. Over the past few years, research on securing syslogs has yielded enhanced syslog protocols that focus on tamper prevention and detection. However, many of these protocols, though efficient from a security perspective, are inadequate when forensics comes into play. From a legal perspective, any kind of evidence found at a crime scene needs to be validated. In addition, any digital forensic evidence when presented in court needs to be admissible, authentic, believable, and reliable [4]. Currently, a patchy log on the server side and client side cannot be considered as formal authentication of a wrong doer [5]. This paper presents a method that ties together, authenticates, and validates all the entities involved in the crime scene - the user using the application, the system that is being used, and the application being used on the system by a user. This means that instead of merely transmitting the header and the message, which is the standard syslog protocol format, the syslog entry along with the user fingerprint, application fingerprint, and system fingerprint are transmitted to the logging server. The assignment of digital fingerprints and the addition of a challenge response mechanism to the underlying syslogging mechanism aim to validate generated syslogs forensically.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Authentication and validation;  Forensic validity;  Model;  System log files\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1118\
McDonald, J.T., Kim, Y.C., Yasinsac, A.\
36027126600;55699558800;8303393500;\
Software issues in digital forensics\
(2008) Operating Systems Review (ACM), 42 (3), pp. 29-40. Cited 12 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-70249088181&doi=10.1145%2f1368506.1368512&partnerID=40&md5=faa00a2202044a4f4d6ebdf618b5466c\
\
DOI: 10.1145/1368506.1368512\
AFFILIATIONS: Air Force Institute of Technology, Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering, WPAFB, Dayton, OH 45433, United States; \
Florida State University, Dept. of Computer Science, Tallahassee, FL 32306, United States\
ABSTRACT: Whether we accept it or not, computer systems and the operating systems that direct them are at the heart of major forms of malicious activity. Criminals can use computers as the actual target of their malicious activity (stealing funds electronically from a bank) or use them to support the conduct of criminal activity in general (using a spreadsheet to track drug shipments). In either case, law enforcement needs the ability (when required) to collect evidence from such platforms in a reliable manner that preserves the fingerprints of criminal activity. Though such discussion touches on privacy issues and rules of legal veracity, we focus purely on technological support in this paper. Specifically, we examine and set forth principles of operating system (OS) design that may significantly increase the success of (future) forensic collection efforts. We lay out several OS design attributes that synergistically enhance forensics activities. Specifically, we pose the use of circuit encryption techniques to provide an additional layer of protection above hardware-enforced approaches. We conclude by providing an overarching framework to incorporate these enhancements within the context of OS design.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Circuit encryption;  Digital forensics;  Evidence collection;  Forensic software;  Obfuscation;  Operating system extensions;  Operating systems;  Security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1119\
Kim, Y., Lee, S., Hong, D.\
57121186400;52763552200;9043854700;\
Suspects' data hiding at remaining registry values of uninstalled programs\
(2008) e-Forensics 2008 - Proceedings of the 1st International Conference on Forensic Applications and Techniques in Telecommunications, Information, and Multimedia and Workshop, art. no. 1363259, . Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84925331979&doi=10.4108%2fe-forensics.2008.33&partnerID=40&md5=06ce476ab6c07e7cc8b3bcee966e4def\
\
DOI: 10.4108/e-forensics.2008.33\
AFFILIATIONS: ETRI, 161 Gajeong-dong Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: Windows registry, a central repository for configuration data, should be investigated for obtaining forensic evidences, since it contains lots of information that are of potential evidential value. Using some forensic tools, forensic examiners can investigate values of windows registry and get information can be forensic evidences. However, since windows registry contains huge amount of values and these values can be modified by users, suspect can hide his secret like password in registry values. Specially, remaining registry values not removed after uninstalling specific programs can be the best target to hide a suspect's secret without forensic examiners' notice, since generally they are not interested in registry values of removed programs, but which programs were removed. In this paper, we briefly extract some registry entries related to forensic analysis based on Windows XP and list up consideration items for hiding secrets in registry as suspect's viewpoint. And then we show that countermeasures are needed, examining remainder of registry values for specific programs uninstalled. \'a9 2008 ICST.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Data hiding;  Digital Forensics;  Windows Registry\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1120\
Slay, J., Simon, M.\
15756115700;56007866100;\
Voice over IP forensics\
(2008) e-Forensics 2008 - Proceedings of the 1st International Conference on Forensic Applications and Techniques in Telecommunications, Information, and Multimedia and Workshop, art. no. 1363231, . Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84866645471&doi=10.4108%2fe-forensics.2008.2852&partnerID=40&md5=7ab90f5c957c03d67b0305f2ab282fef\
\
DOI: 10.4108/e-forensics.2008.2852\
AFFILIATIONS: University of South Australia, Defence and Systems Institute, Mawson Lakes, Australia\
ABSTRACT: With the tremendous growth in popularity and bandwidth of the Internet, VoIP technology has emerged that allows phone calls to be routed over Internet infrastructure rather than the traditional Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) infrastructure. The issues faced by law enforcement authorities concerning VoIP are very different from that of traditional telephony. Wiretapping is not applicable to VoIP calls and packet capturing is negated by encryption. This paper presents and discusses experimental work carried out to explore methods by which electronic evidence may be collected from systems where VoIP conversations play an important role in suspected criminal activity or communications. \'a9 2008 ICST.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Forensic Computing;  Voice over Internet Protocol\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1121\
Ramos, D., Gonzalez-Rodriguez, J.\
22635815900;7004803808;\
Cross-entropy Analysis of the Information in Forensic Speaker Recognition\
(2008) Odyssey 2008: Speaker and Language Recognition Workshop, . Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85084013537&partnerID=40&md5=f6220671509756f326ea5462c2031f40\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Biometric Recognition Group - ATVS, EPS, Universidad Autonoma de Madrid, C./Francisco Tomas y Valiente 11, Madrid, E-28049, Spain\
ABSTRACT: In this work we analyze the average information supplied by a forensic speaker recognition system in an information-theoretical way. The objective is the transparent reporting of the performance of the system in terms of information, according to the needs of transparency and testability in forensic science. This analysis allows the derivation of a proper measure of goodness for forensic speaker recognition, the empirical cross-entropy ( ), according to previous work in the literature. We also propose an intuitive representation, namely the plot, which allows forensic scientists to explain the average information given by the evidence analysis process in a clear and intuitive way. Such representation allows the forensic scientist to assess the evidence evaluation process with independence of the prior information, which is province of the court. Then, fact finders may check the average information given by the evidence analysis with the incorporation of prior information. An experimental example following NIST SRE 2006 protocol is presented in order to highlight the adequacy of the proposed framework in the forensic inferential process. An example of the presentation of the average information supplied by the forensic analysis of the speech evidence in court is also provided, simulating a real case. \'a9 Odyssey 2008: Speaker and Language Recognition Workshop. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1122\
Dampier, D., Cohoon, J.\
6602308925;25654650700;\
Building an education program for engineers in digital forensics\
(2008) ASEE Annual Conference and Exposition, Conference Proceedings, 10 p. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85029118422&partnerID=40&md5=b9b273428e94fdb36574f555e601c8a1\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Mississippi State University; \
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Mississippi State University\
ABSTRACT: This paper describes an innovative laboratory based program that offers life-long learning activities to working professionals in the law enforcement community while simultaneously including students at the undergraduate and graduate levels in digital forensics service, learning and research. The program has been highly successful with involvement of PhD students, Master's level students, and undergraduates who are focusing on the computer security/digital forensics area of interest. Computer crime is a rapidly growing problem throughout the connected world. Not only are computer crimes becoming more numerous and commonplace, the sophistication of computer criminals is also increasing. As technology has increased in sophistication, and criminals have exploited new technologies, computer forensics investigators trying to solve those crimes have had to learn new techniques. This trend has necessitated the inclusion of new classes in computer science and criminal justice programs. At Mississippi State University, the Center for Computer Security Research, with the assistance of the Mississippi Attorney General's Office and others developed a digital forensics training program that provides no-cost training to law enforcement officers throughout the Southeast United States in subjects ranging from basic computer skills and introductory courses in cyber crime to very advanced commercial training in using the most sophisticated investigative and analysis software available. Law enforcement officers have been very receptive to this program, with over 1400 law enforcement officers from over 200 departments in 18 states taking advantage of the training. Students in computer science, software engineering and computer engineering programs at Mississippi State University have also benefited from this program. An introductory course in computer forensics has been standing room only for the last several years, and advanced graduate classes in digital forensics are also very popular. Funding for this center is provided by the United States Department of Justice, and has not only supported the forensics training center, but has also helped to establish a one-of-a-kind Cyber Crime Fusion Center in Jackson, Mississippi, where law enforcement agents from Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies as well as students and staff from Mississippi State University work together to solve computer crimes. Additionally, the support has enabled Mississippi State University to build a world-class digital forensics laboratory that can be used by researchers, law enforcement agencies, and students alike to experiment with new technologies and build a foundation for pursuing digital forensics as a profession. This paper describes the center, as well as provides evidence of the proven value of such work for the university and the nation. \'a9 American Society for Engineering Education, 2008.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1123 **SELECTED** SID: 62\
Jahankhani, H., Beqiri, E.\
55970576100;35097201800;\
Memory-Based Antiforensic Tools and Techniques\
(2008) International Journal of Information Security and Privacy (IJISP), 2 (2), pp. 1-13. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85001790595&doi=10.4018%2fjisp.2008040101&partnerID=40&md5=e9006ed35a9a139cedb07e4e33a93d0e\
\
DOI: 10.4018/jisp.2008040101\
AFFILIATIONS: University of East London, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Computer forensics is the discipline that deals with the acquisition, investigation, preservation, and presentation of digital evidence in the court of law. Whereas antiforensics is the terminology used to describe malicious activities deployed to delete, alter, or hide digital evidence with the main objective of manipulating, destroying, and preventing the creation of evidence. Various antiforensic methodologies and tools can be used to interfere with digital evidence and computer forensic tools. However, memory-based antiforensic techniques are of particular interest because of their effectiveness, advanced manipulation of digital evidence, and attack on computer forensic tools. These techniques are mainly performed in volatile memory using advanced data alteration and hiding techniques. For these reasons memory-based antiforensic techniques are considered to be unbeatable. This article aims to present some of the current antiforensic approaches and in particular reports on memory-based antiforensic tools and techniques. \'a9 2008, IGI Global. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: antiforensics;  data hiding;  live CD;  memory-based antiforensics;  wireless antiforensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1124\
Tuting, A.-N., Williams, P.\
56074476300;55682732600;\
Creating hardware-based primitives to enhance digital forensics in a novel computing architecture\
(2008) 3rd International Conference on Information Warfare and Security, pp. 379-386. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84896520586&partnerID=40&md5=e0cf01815f76505f291b6c381dcf5689\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Air Force Institute of Technology, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, OH, United States\
ABSTRACT: Adding hardware primitives to observe and preserve digital events and states of a computer will enhance the development of usable knowledge in digital forensic investigations. This will allow for trusted indirect observations of a computer's internal states producing evidence that will satisfy the evidence purists and the court system. Typically, traditional digital forensic techniques have focused on disk drives and other non-volatile data sources. Pulling the plug on a live system has been the long-established way to preserve digital evidence; however, this has the side effect of erasing volatile memory. Acquiring system memory and other volatile data leading up to an incident in a trusted fashion and independent of software running on the system can provide a great deal of relevant information about the system's state before, during and after an incident. This paper explores forensic hardware primitives via a socket-compatible field programmable gate array (FGPA) for motherboard processor sockets. This provides us the opportunity to develop practical means by which we can acquire volatile main memory as well as collect other volatile data independent of the operating system or other potentially compromised code.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Digital evidence;  Digital investigation;  Incident response;  Volatile memory acquisition\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1125 **SELECTED** SID: 63 **UNAVAILABLE**\
Jahankhani, H., Beqiri, E., Revett, K.\
55970576100;35097201800;6602507076;\
Advanced manipulation of digital evidence using memory based anti-forensic tools\
(2008) 3rd International Conference on Information Warfare and Security, pp. 213-220. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84896502398&partnerID=40&md5=d212a9af6260b55125328615755f0452\
\
AFFILIATIONS: University of East London, United Kingdom; \
University of Westminster, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Criminals are exploiting now digital communications to commit a wide range of crimes such as identity theft, online piracy, financial fraud, terrorism and pornography distribution. Computer forensics is the discipline that deals with the acquisition, investigation, preservation and presentation of digital evidence in the court of law. Whereas anti-forensics is the terminology used to describe malicious activities deployed to delete, alter or hide digital evidence with the main objective of manipulating, destroying and preventing the creation of evidence. This paper aims to present some of the current anti-forensic approaches and in particular reports on memory-based anti-forensic tools and techniques. Memory-based bootable live CD's are specially built Linux operating systems that boot directly from the CD drive into the RAM (Random Access Memory) area. Live CD's are used mainly for penetration testing and other security related tasks and they include a variety of software packages that can be used for anti-forensic purposes.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Data hiding;  Live CD;  Memory-based anti-forensics;  Wireless anti-forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1126\
Iqbal, F., Hadjidj, R., Fung, B.C.M., Debbabi, M.\
35788088300;12644950100;9737587400;57203104171;\
A novel approach of mining write-prints for authorship attribution in e-mail forensics\
(2008) DFRWS 2008 Annual Conference, 5, pp. S42-S51. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84868587077&partnerID=40&md5=09b78c62642dd5b8c64b2d73f3e2114d\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering, Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science, Concordia University, Montreal, QC H3G 1M8, Canada\
ABSTRACT: There is an alarming increase in the number of cybercrime incidents through anonymous e-mails. The problem of e-mail authorship attribution is to identify the most plausible author of an anonymous e-mail from a group of potential suspects. Most previous contributions employed a traditional classification approach, such as decision tree and Support Vector Machine (SVM), to identify the author and studied the effects of different writing style features on the classification accuracy. However, little attention has been given on ensuring the quality of the evidence. In this paper, we introduce an innovative data mining method to capture the write-print of every suspect and model it as combinations of features that occurred frequently in the suspect's e-mails. This notion is called frequent pattern, which has proven to be effective in many data mining applications, but it is the first time to be applied to the problem of authorship attribution. Unlike the traditional approach, the extracted write-print by our method is unique among the suspects and, therefore, provides convincing and credible evidence for presenting it in a court of law. Experiments on real-life e-mails suggest that the proposed method can effectively identify the author and the results are supported by a strong evidence. \'a9 2008 Digital Forensic Research Workshop. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Authorship identification;  Data mining;  E-mail forensic analysis;  Frequent itemsets;  Write-print\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1127\
Van Baar, R.B., Alink, W., Van Ballegooij, A.R.\
24492560700;9736679600;57213895862;\
Forensic memory analysis: Files mapped in memory\
(2008) DFRWS 2008 Annual Conference, 5, pp. S52-S57. Cited 11 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84868571744&partnerID=40&md5=c9e4d987e2916232fc56f4fa21f03cda\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Netherland Forensic Institute, 2497 GB, The Hague, Netherlands\
ABSTRACT: In this paper we describe a method for recovering files mapped in memory and to link mapped- file information process data. This information is forensically interesting, because it helps determine the origin and usage of the file and because it reduces the amount of unidentified data in a memory dump. To find mapped-file content, we apply several different techniques. Together, these techniques can identify approximately 25% of test memory dumps as being part of a memory-mapped file. \'a9 2008 Digital Forensic Research Workshop. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Memory mapped files;  Microsoft Windows XP SP2;  Volatile evidence\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1128\
Iqbal, F., Hadjidj, R., Fung, B.C.M., Debbabi, M.\
35788088300;12644950100;9737587400;57203104171;\
A novel approach of mining write-prints for authorship attribution in e-mail forensics\
(2008) Digital Investigation, 5 (SUPPL.), pp. S42-S51. Cited 77 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-48749129671&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2008.05.001&partnerID=40&md5=aabcb071696a467ef28869e7850c5fcf\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2008.05.001\
AFFILIATIONS: Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering, Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science, Concordia University, Montreal, Que. H3G 1M8, Canada\
ABSTRACT: There is an alarming increase in the number of cybercrime incidents through anonymous e-mails. The problem of e-mail authorship attribution is to identify the most plausible author of an anonymous e-mail from a group of potential suspects. Most previous contributions employed a traditional classification approach, such as decision tree and Support Vector Machine (SVM), to identify the author and studied the effects of different writing style features on the classification accuracy. However, little attention has been given on ensuring the quality of the evidence. In this paper, we introduce an innovative data mining method to capture the write-print of every suspect and model it as combinations of features that occurred frequently in the suspect's e-mails. This notion is called frequent pattern, which has proven to be effective in many data mining applications, but it is the first time to be applied to the problem of authorship attribution. Unlike the traditional approach, the extracted write-print by our method is unique among the suspects and, therefore, provides convincing and credible evidence for presenting it in a court of law. Experiments on real-life e-mails suggest that the proposed method can effectively identify the author and the results are supported by a strong evidence. \'a9 2008 Digital Forensic Research Workshop.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Authorship identification;  Data mining;  E-mail forensic analysis;  Frequent itemsets;  Write-print\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1129\
van Baar, R.B., Alink, W., van Ballegooij, A.R.\
24492560700;9736679600;57213895862;\
Forensic memory analysis: Files mapped in memory\
(2008) Digital Investigation, 5 (SUPPL.), pp. S52-S57. Cited 27 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-48749118027&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2008.05.014&partnerID=40&md5=1f4bac0d73b6df31b1e4c202472b13a2\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2008.05.014\
AFFILIATIONS: Netherland Forensic Institute, 2497 GB The Hague, Netherlands\
ABSTRACT: In this paper we describe a method for recovering files mapped in memory and to link mapped-file information process data. This information is forensically interesting, because it helps determine the origin and usage of the file and because it reduces the amount of unidentified data in a memory dump. To find mapped-file content, we apply several different techniques. Together, these techniques can identify approximately 25% of test memory dumps as being part of a memory-mapped file. \'a9 2008 Digital Forensic Research Workshop.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Memory mapped files;  Microsoft Windows XP SP2;  Volatile evidence\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1130\
Jae, H.S., Hyun, S.Y., Jae, H.Y.\
24483437200;24483768900;35821856500;\
Design and implementation of KFMS for digital forensics\
(2008) Proceedings of the International Conference on Information Science and Security, ICISS 2008, art. no. 4438236, pp. 214-219. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-48349107279&doi=10.1109%2fICISS.2008.34&partnerID=40&md5=2c432d5929c75fbbd46da1b6cc76c015\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICISS.2008.34\
AFFILIATIONS: Dept. of Information Security, Kyonggi University, 71 Chungjung-Ro, Seodaemun-Gu Seoul, South Korea\
ABSTRACT: As the digitization of information is advanced, the case which keeps inside the digital information machinery and tools where the important evidence or beginning are included is increasing in computer related crime and also general crime. The digital organization standardized the process of digital forensic in the investigation office and the cyber crime investigation which applies the various equipments (S/W, H/W) is being activated. But the specialist discernment is necessary for equipment (S/W and H/W) application and the actual condition is that the evidence management and joint ownership are restricted. As it is able to approach in the case of the non specialist easily and a corroborative fact data application degree is raised through the connection of the investigation office (prosecution, police) & the financial institution (the bank, insurance and the securities) and the necessity of the near search using a mining & the digital forensic evidence management system is proposed, we would like to propose the prototype of digital evidence management system for the efficient cyber crime investigation through this research. \'a9 2008 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1131\
Limongelli, V.\
23976167600;\
Digital evidence: Findings of reliability, not presumptions\
(2008) Journal of Digital Forensic Practice, 2 (1), pp. 13-16. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-40749113245&doi=10.1080%2f15567280701721913&partnerID=40&md5=49a686e015d6aa9f20b097110c8e4259\
\
DOI: 10.1080/15567280701721913\
AFFILIATIONS: Guidance Software, Inc., Pasadena, CA, United States\
ABSTRACT: There is an observed tendency among many proponents of open-source software to assert that proprietary software applications should be evaluated by courts by different, and higher, standards than those applied to scientific or technical evidence generally. Although there is a wealth of case law regarding the proper standards for the admission of technical or scientific evidence, none of that case law supports a distinction between proprietary software and open-source tools. The author argues that if a particular proprietary software is unreliable, the appropriate remedy is already embodied in existing case law and the rules of evidence. Neither recent statute-specific case law from Florida nor data manipulation techniques applied prior to a forensic image being taken suggest that source code analysis should play any part in the validation of computer forensics tools.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Bjorkland;  Computer forensics;  Daubert;  Digital evidence;  EnCase;  Federal rules of evidence;  Kelly/Frye\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1132 **SELECTED** SID: 64 **UNAVAILABLE**\
Jahankhani, H., Anastasios, B., Revett, K.\
55970576100;55595972000;6602507076;\
Digital anti forensics: Tools and approaches\
(2007) 6th European Conference on Information Warfare and Security 2007, ECIW 2007, pp. 115-120. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84873801938&partnerID=40&md5=d18c2598185c62531d703bdd25aa7ff5\
\
AFFILIATIONS: University of East London, United Kingdom; \
University of Westminster, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Anti-forensics as a concept is as old as the traditional computer forensics. Someone that commit a punishable action use any possible way to get rid of any evidence connected with the prohibited action. The traditional forensics can have a range of anti-forensics that start from a trivial level (e.g. wiping fingerprints from a gun) and to a level where our fantasy can meet the implementation of an anti-forensic idea (e.g. alteration of DNA left behind in a crime). In digital anti-forensics the same rules exists, with the difference that they are fairly new with little research and development. Although Anti-Forensics is a field under development, however, there are already categories of available tools. This paper aims to present of the some current antiforensic approaches along with some applicable solutions.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Data hiding;  Live CD;  Wireless anti-forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1133\
Trifas, M., Brown, D., Francia, R.\
12799773700;57198655532;22034359700;\
Building an automated computer forensic visualization system\
(2007) WMSCI 2007 - The 11th World Multi-Conference on Systemics, Cybernetics and Informatics, Jointly with the 13th International Conference on Information Systems Analysis and Synthesis, ISAS 2007 - Proc., 4, pp. 265-270. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84869823395&partnerID=40&md5=6e5fbcb6d036aa8860c5aff7572c8ed2\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Mathematical,Computing and Information Sciences, Jacksonville State University, Jacksonville, AL 36265, United States\
ABSTRACT: Legislative regulations demand increased levels of security for computer network systems. To be in compliance with the law digital forensic evidence must be preserved and examined for possible system attacks. As the sophistication of the attacks increases, the security system must also evolve while at the same time remaining simplistic enough for the average system administrator to use. Combining powerful forensic tools with deliverable visual snapshots provides such a system.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Intrusion detection;  Log management;  Visualization\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1134\
Schatz, B.\
14040853000;\
BodySnatcher: Towards reliable volatile memory acquisition by software\
(2007) DFRWS 2007 Annual Conference, pp. S126-S134. Cited 17 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84868380591&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2007.06.009&partnerID=40&md5=f4616a3cd92047950213668d04186859\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2007.06.009\
AFFILIATIONS: Evimetry, PO Box 6192, Fairfield Gardens, QLD 4103, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Recently there has been a surge in interest in memory forensics: the acquisition and analysis of the contents of physical memory obtained from live hosts. The emergence of kernel level rootkits, anti-forensics, and the threat of subversion that they pose threatens to undermine the reliability of such memory images and digital evidence in general. In this paper we propose a method of acquiring the contents of volatile memory from arbitrary operating systems in a manner that provides point in time atomic snapshots of the host OS volatile memory. Additionally the method is more resistant to subversion due to its reduced attack surface. Our method is to inject an independent, acquisition specific OS into the potentially subverted host OS kernel, snatching full control of the host's hardware. We describe an implementation of this proposal, which we call BodySnatcher, which has demonstrated proof of concept by acquiringmemory from Windows 2000 operating systems. \'a9 2007 DFRWS. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Memory acquisition;  Memory imaging;  Volatile memory forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1135\
Barik, M.S., Gupta, G., Sinhac, S., Mishra, A., Mazumdar, C.\
8685931600;57213551100;7403739423;57199851469;57212855541;\
An efficient technique for enhancing forensic capabilities of Ext2 file system\
(2007) DFRWS 2007 Annual Conference, pp. S55-S61. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84868364843&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2007.06.007&partnerID=40&md5=e3b7fef82c0742e4f75218328ddbbd23\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2007.06.007\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of CSE, Jadavpur University, Kolkata 700032, India; \
IT Advisory, KPMG, India; \
Department of IT, Bengal Engineering and Science University, Shibpur 711103, India\
ABSTRACT: As electronic documents become more important and valuable in the modern era, attempts are invariably made to take undue-advantage by tampering with them. Tampering with the modification, access and creation date and time stamps (MAC DTS ) of digital documents pose a great threat and proves to be a major handicap in digital forensic investigation. Authentic date and time stamps (ADTS ) can provide crucial evidence in linking crime to criminal in cases of Computer Fraud and Cyber Crimes (CFCC ) through reliable time lining of digital evidence. But the ease with which the MAC DTS of stored digital documents can be changed raises some serious questions about the integrity and admissibility of digital evidence, potentially leading to rejection of acquired digital evidence in the court of Law. MAC DTS procedures of popular operating systems are inherently flawed and were created only for the sake of convenience and not necessarily keeping in mind the security and digital forensic aspects. This paper explores these issues in the context of the Ext2 file system and also proposes one solution to tackle such issues for the scenario where systems have preinstalled plug-ins in the form of Loadable Kernel Modules, which provide the capability to preserve ADTS. \'a9 2007 DFRWS. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Authentic date and time stamps (ADTS);  Computer frauds and cyber crimes (CFCC);  Date and time stamps (MAC DTS );  Electronic documents;  Ext2 file system;  Loadable Kernel Module (LKM);  Modification access and creation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1136\
DFRWS 2007 Annual Conference\
(2007) DFRWS 2007 Annual Conference, 157 p. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84868360904&partnerID=40&md5=f2fc5d5345db9e6a85354d4068fa8b95\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 17 papers and 1 PowerPoint presentation. The topics discussed include: digital forensic text string searching: improving information retrieval effectiveness by thematically clustering search results; file marshal: automatic extraction of peer-to-peer data; an efficient technique for enhancing forensic capabilities of Ext2 file system; issues with imaging drives containing faulty sectors; forensic data recovery and examination of magnetic swipe card cloning devices; the VAD tree: a process-eye view of physical memory; capture - a behavioral analysis tool for applications and documents; carving contiguous and fragmented files with fast object validation; massive threading: using GPUs to increase the performance of digital forensics tools; automated Windows event log forensics; forensic memory analysis: from stack and code to execution history; analyzing multiple logs for forensic evidence; and multi-resolution similarity hashing.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1137\
Murphey, R.\
17135917500;\
Automated Windows event log forensics\
(2007) DFRWS 2007 Annual Conference, pp. S92-S100. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84868350361&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2007.06.012&partnerID=40&md5=edeb3a1e9266535f65e8de826296e03c\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2007.06.012\
AFFILIATIONS: Applied Cognitive Solutions, Houston, TX, United States\
ABSTRACT: This paper proposes methods to automate recovery and analysis of Windows NT5 (XP and 2003) event logs for computer forensics. Requirements are formulated and methods are evaluated with respect to motivation and process models. A new, freely available tool is presented that, based on these requirements, automates the repair of a common type of corruption often observed in data carved NT5 event logs. This tool automates repair of multiple event logs in a single step without user intervention. The tool was initially developed to meet immediate needs of computer forensic engagements. Automating recovery, repair, and correlation of multiple logs make these methods more feasible for consideration in both a wider range of cases and earlier phases of cases, and hopefully, in turn, standard procedures. The tool was developed to fill a gap between capabilities of certain other freely available tools that may recover and correlate large volumes of log events, and consequently permit correlation with various other kinds of Windows artifacts. The methods are examined in the context of an example digital forensic service request intended to illustrate the kinds of civil cases that motivated this work. \'a9 2007 DFRWS. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Automation;  Computer forensics;  Event logs;  Log analysis;  Process models;  Requirements;  Tool development;  Windows XP\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1138\
Kessler, G.C.\
23976166100;\
Anti-forensics and the digital investigator\
(2007) Proceedings of the 5th Australian Digital Forensics Conference, pp. 1-7. Cited 43 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84867717801&partnerID=40&md5=949c3f0a566465c16a1f530e1b5b5471\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Champlain College, Burlington, VT, United States; \
Edith Cowan University, Mount Lawley, WA, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Viewed generically, anti-forensics (AF) is that set of tactics and measures taken by someone who wants to thwart the digital investigation process. This paper describes some of the many AF tools and methods, under the broad classifications of data hiding, artefact wiping, trail obfuscation, and attacks on the forensics tools themselves. The concept of AF is neither new nor solely intended to be used by the criminal class; it also has legitimate use by those who wish to protect their privacy. This paper also introduces the concept of time-sensitive antiforensics, noting that AF procedures might be employed for the sole purpose of delaying rather than totally preventing the discovery of digital information.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Artefact wiping;  Attacks on computer forensics tools;  Data hiding;  Privacy;  Trail obfuscation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1139\
Chi, Z., Hongbin, Z.\
56949301800;6508229649;\
Detecting digital image forgeries through weighted local entropy\
(2007) ISSPIT 2007 - 2007 IEEE International Symposium on Signal Processing and Information Technology, art. no. 4458021, pp. 62-67. Cited 14 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-71549157181&doi=10.1109%2fISSPIT.2007.4458021&partnerID=40&md5=694cc2ec35a963512eb30f2a19556cc4\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ISSPIT.2007.4458021\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Institute, Beijing University of Technology, Beijing, China\
ABSTRACT: In this paper, we propose a new method that could reveal some traces that were left in the tampered digital images without using watermarking technique. Our method is based on detecting the presence of feather operation, which is particularly useful to create a smooth transition between the selected region and its surroundings. The similarity of pixel neighborhood is used as weight coefficient to modulate local entropy value. The forged region can be determined by the value of weighted local entropy precisely. Results of experiments on tampered images will be given. \'a92007 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Digital tampering;  Weighted local entropy\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1140\
Takatsukat, M., Tadat, M., Sasakit, R.\
24833930300;24833919700;55859781100;\
Proposal of the e-discovery system for sanitizing disclosure information and for securing evidence\
(2007) Proceedings of Future Generation Communication and Networking, FGCN 2007, 2, art. no. 4426212, pp. 102-107. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-52249085239&partnerID=40&md5=6e6180be2a470658722ece2f9081f2e8\
\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Engineering, Tokyo Denki University, 2-2 Kandanishikicho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-8457, Japan\
ABSTRACT: With the advancement of electronic information, digital forensic; is becoming important for securing digital data as evidence. This trend is expected to grow in Future Generation Communication environments. Among digital forensics, the e-Discovery technology is becoming particulorly important as a procedure for electronic evidence disclosure. At the disclosure of evidence, necessary electronic documents containing keywords specified by the plaintiff must always be disclosed. In many cases, however, secret of private information is kept confidential for protection (this is called "sanitising"). If an electronic document with an ordinary digital signature is partially sanitized, the tampering of a non-sanitized Section cannot be detected. In addition, keywords may be sanitized to avoid document submission. This paper proposes the e-Discovery system that allows both the sanitizing of disclosure information and the securing of evidence.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1141\
Johnson, M.K., Farid, H.\
8579839200;7007029048;\
Exposing digital forgeries through specular highlights on the eye\
(2007) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 4567 LNCS, pp. 311-325. Cited 81 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-49949111385&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-540-77370-2_21&partnerID=40&md5=c5f3e552cec0bec13940ac3964021f4a\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-77370-2_21\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH 03755, United States\
ABSTRACT: When creating a digital composite of two people, it is difficult to exactly match the lighting conditions under which each individual was originally photographed. In many situations, the light source in a scene gives rise to a specular highlight on the eyes. We show how the direction to a light source can be estimated from this highlight. Inconsistencies in lighting across an image are then used to reveal traces of digital tampering. \'a9 2008 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Digital tampering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1142\
Jansen, W.A., Delaitre, A.\
7103044273;24476393600;\
Reference material for assessing forensic SIM tools\
(2007) Proceedings - International Carnahan Conference on Security Technology, art. no. 4373494, pp. 227-234. Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-47849105704&doi=10.1109%2fCCST.2007.4373494&partnerID=40&md5=b10e225e9176c87e623a7a01ccabbda9\
\
DOI: 10.1109/CCST.2007.4373494\
AFFILIATIONS: IEEE; \
National Institute of Standards and Technology, STOP 8930, 100 Bureau Dr, Gaithersburg, MD 20899, United States\
ABSTRACT: Subscriber Identity Modules (SIMs) are a fundamental standardized component of most cell phones used worldwide. A SIM can be removed from a phone handset and inserted into another, allowing users to port identity, personal information, and service between devices. All cell phones are expected to incorporate some type of identity module eventually, in part, because of this useful property. Some of the earliest, general purpose, forensic tools for cell phones targeted SIMs to recover digital evidence. While over time the capabilities and number of such tools have increased, they are not completely free of problems. Validating a forensic SIM tool is an essential quality assurance measure. It allows a forensic specialist to determine how to compensate for any shortcomings identified or whether to use one version of the tool in lieu of another. Tool manufacturers also benefit from rigorously validating their products before releasing them. However, creating reference SIMs that contain comprehensive test data can be time consuming and difficult to accomplish. This paper describes an approach for automating the population of test data onto SIMs to create reference material for use in tool validation. It also covers details of the implementation and explains characteristics of SIMs that pertain to the solution. \'a92007 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cell phones;  Computer forensics;  Digital evidence\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1143\
Kotze, D., Olivier, M.S.\
36787575100;7101741068;\
Patlet for digital forensics first responders\
(2007) Proceedings - International Workshop on Database and Expert Systems Applications, DEXA, art. no. 4312998, pp. 770-774. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-47849092026&doi=10.1109%2fDEXA.2007.30&partnerID=40&md5=f3c415742ab7678b6bd82a4ff11283bc\
\
DOI: 10.1109/DEXA.2007.30\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, University of Pretoria, IT Building, Lynnwood Road, Hillcrest Pretoria, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: The process of investigating a crime committed by using digital means is called Digital Forensics (DF). DF training is critical, especially since first responders to a digital crime scene often contaminate the evidence unknowingly. A pattern is a generic solution to a repeating problem. The authors propose a DF pattern template (patlet - as it is only a proposal) to govern the above-mentioned issue. The patlet is illustrated by its application using a live-CD based tool for first responder validation of DF evidence. \'a9 2007 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1144\
Petrovi\uc0\u263 , S., Franke, K.\
23397884700;14057858600;\
Improving the efficiency of digital forensic search by means of the constrained edit distance\
(2007) Proceedings - IAS 2007 3rd Internationl Symposium on Information Assurance and Security, art. no. 4299807, pp. 405-410. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-44949093168&doi=10.1109%2fIAS.2007.38&partnerID=40&md5=f2af85ece7d69c0eeb8bd180b11bf1d4\
\
DOI: 10.1109/IAS.2007.38\
AFFILIATIONS: NISlab., Department of Computer Science and Media Technology, Gj\'f8vik University College, P.O. box 191, 2802 Gj\'f8vik, Norway\
ABSTRACT: A new search procedure is presented that makes use of the constrained edit distance in the pre-selection of the areas of the digital forensic search space that are interesting for the investigation. The constraints regard the maximum numbers of consecutive deletions and insertions. The original algorithm for computing the constrained edit distance is modified in order to be used in forensic search. The modification removes the constraints before the first substitution and after the last substitution. The advantage of the new method over the use of the unconstrained edit distance in the same procedure lies in the possibility of eliminating the need for finer exhaustive search in the fragments of the search space, in which the detected subsequence is too distorted. It also enables better control over the search process in the case of deliberate distortion of the evidence strings. Experimental results show that the proposed method offers data set reduction in the typical cases of as much as 80% compared to the method that uses unconstrained edit distance. \'a9 2007 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1145\
Manson, D., Carlin, A., Ramos, S., Gyger, A., Kaufman, M., Treichelt, J.\
24492119000;36830070000;23668736200;23667474600;36806838900;23668920500;\
Is the open way a better way? Digital forensics using open source tools\
(2007) Proceedings of the Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, art. no. 4076922, . Cited 29 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-39749098014&doi=10.1109%2fHICSS.2007.301&partnerID=40&md5=89075e864dcc44deb57705a894bde554\
\
DOI: 10.1109/HICSS.2007.301\
AFFILIATIONS: California State Polytechnic University, Computer Information Systems Department, Pomona, CA 91768, United States\
ABSTRACT: The subject of digital forensics can be quite challenging. Digital forensics is in its infancy and teaching digital forensics includes the techniques as well as the tools that assist in the process. This article discusses the tools used in computer forensics, compares an open source tool to two commercial tools, and the advantages and disadvantages of all three tools in an academic environment. A team of four senior students sponsored by two faculty members established the project scope and requirements, presented three prototypes, and detailed the considerations of using open source tools. The same image was used to measure the performance of each software tool. The team found that the three tools provided the same results with different degrees of difficulty. The end results indicate that Open Source tools are a very good verification of evidence found using other products and should be included in the academic environment. \'a9 2007 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1146\
Wang, W., Farid, H.\
51562721100;7007029048;\
Exposing digital forgeries in interlaced and deinterlaced video\
(2007) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 2 (3), pp. 438-449. Cited 101 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-34548070244&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2007.902661&partnerID=40&md5=7664c1f0888f2cf9bb2d4d113c5b87cd\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2007.902661\
AFFILIATIONS: IEEE; \
Department of Computer Science, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH 03755, United States\
ABSTRACT: With the advent of high-quality digital video cameras and sophisticated video editing software, it is becoming increasingly easier to tamper with digital video. A growing number of video surveillance cameras are also giving rise to an enormous amount of video data. The ability to ensure the integrity and authenticity of these data poses considerable challenges. We describe two techniques for detecting traces of tampering in deinterlaced and interlaced video. For deinterlaced video, we quantify the correlations introduced by the camera or software deinterlacing algorithms and show how tampering can disturb these correlations. For interlaced video, we show that the motion between fields of a single frame and across fields of neighboring frames should be equal. We propose an efficient way to measure these motions and show how tampering can disturb this relationship. \'a9 2007 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Digital tampering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1147\
Johnson, M.K., Farid, H.\
8579839200;7007029048;\
Exposing digital forgeries in complex lighting environments\
(2007) IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, 2 (3), pp. 450-461. Cited 243 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-34548056428&doi=10.1109%2fTIFS.2007.903848&partnerID=40&md5=a12a736fa4e4287bd75f10262ba32990\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TIFS.2007.903848\
AFFILIATIONS: IEEE; \
Department of Computer Science, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH 03755, United States\
ABSTRACT: The availability of sophisticated digital imaging technology has given rise to digital forgeries that are increasing in sophistication and frequency. We describe a technique for exposing such fakes by detecting inconsistencies in lighting. We show how to approximate complex lighting environments with a low-dimensional model and, further, how to estimate the model's parameters from a single image. Inconsistencies in the lighting model are then used as evidence of tampering. \'a9 2007 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Digital tampering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1148\
Luo, W., Qu, Z., Huango, J., Qiu, G.\
18042301700;16507381200;18041853300;7103292111;\
A novel method for detecting cropped and recompressed image block\
(2007) ICASSP, IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing - Proceedings, 2, art. no. 4217384, pp. II217-II220. Cited 153 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-34547529764&doi=10.1109%2fICASSP.2007.366211&partnerID=40&md5=326e66e8aa5b3f71a16415a6ba31aded\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICASSP.2007.366211\
AFFILIATIONS: Guangdong Key Lab. of Information Security Technology, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangdong, 510275, China; \
School of Computer Science, University of Nottingham, NG 8, 1BB, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: One of the most common practices in image tampering involves cropping a patch from a source and pasting it onto a target. In this paper, we present a novel method for the detection of such tampering operations in JPEG images. The lossy JPEG compression introduces inherent blocking artifacts into the image and our method exploits such artifacts to serve as a 'watermark'for the detection of image tampering. We develop the blocking artifact characteristics matrix (BACM) and show that, for the original JPEG images, the BACM exhibits regular symmetrical shape; for images that are cropped from another JPEG image and re-saved as JPEG images, the regular symmetrical property of the BACM is destroyed. We fully exploit this property of the BACM and derive representation features from the BACM to train a support vector machine (SVM) classifier for recognizing whether an image is an original JPEG image or it has been cropped from, another JPEG image and re-saved as a JPEG image. We present experiment results to show the efficacy of our method. \'a9 2007 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Block artifact characteristics matrix;  Blocking artifacts;  Digital forensic\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1149\
Forte, D., Power, R.\
10242903100;56229595800;\
A tour through the realm of anti-forensics\
(2007) Computer Fraud and Security, 2007 (6), pp. 18-20. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-34347228655&doi=10.1016%2fS1361-3723%2807%2970079-9&partnerID=40&md5=d2a50847f116eb5f5d62c21a26837e51\
\
DOI: 10.1016/S1361-3723(07)70079-9\
ABSTRACT: Monthly columnists Dario Forte and Richard Power look at the traits, potentials and limitations of an often underestimated or merely rumoured category of malicious software. Anti-forensic behaviour is by no means something new on the information security scene: all attackers attempt to erase or disguise the traces of their intrusion and try to make the investigator's work as difficult as possible. Techniques used to elude computer forensics operations range from the simple deletion of log files to the installation of advanced and nearly invisible rootkits at the system level. The nature and degree of the difficulties faced by an investigator depend on the specific case, but there is no question that the task is becoming generally more difficult as time goes on. According to many experts, anti-forensic actions accompany two out of three attacks. This is a worrisome percentage, especially considering the exponential increase in attacks seen in recent years directed both towards public/governmental targets, and towards the business sector, where most of the resources are. The main objective of anti-forensic actions is to eliminate digital evidence or at least render such evidence unusable for legal purposes. Another objective is to throw investigators off track by modifying the evidence so that it leads to the wrong conclusions. An investigator always has to consider and examine every aspect of the situation in order to avoid falling into traps. This is the first in a series of three articles where we take a look at the traits, potentials and limitations of an often underestimated or merely rumoured category of malicious software. \'a9 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1150 **SELECTED** SID: 65\
Garfinkel, S.\
36867821700;\
Anti-forensics: Techniques, detection and countermeasures\
(2007) ICIW 2007: 2nd International Conference on i-Warfare and Security, pp. 77-84. Cited 77 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84857978988&partnerID=40&md5=5a6022743fedb889133666c14446edb3\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, CA, United States\
ABSTRACT: Computer Forensic Tools (CFTs) allow investigators to recover deleted files, reconstruct an intruder's activities, and gain intelligence about a computer's user. Anti-Forensics (AF) tools and techniques frustrate CFTs by erasing or altering information; creating "chaff" that wastes time and hides information; implicating innocent parties by planting fake evidence; exploiting implementation bugs in known tools; and by leaving "tracer" data that causes CFTs to inadvertently reveal their use to the attacker. Traditional AF tools like disk sanitizers were created to protect the privacy of the user. Anti-debugging techniques were designed to protect the intellectual property of compiled code. Rootkits allow attackers to hide their tools from other programs running on the same computer. But in recent years there has been an emergence of AF that directly target CFTs. This paper categorizes traditional AF techniques such as encrypted file systems and disk sanitization utilities, and presents a survey of recent AF tools including Timestomp and Transmogrify. It discusses approaches for attacking forensic tools by exploiting bugs in those tools, as demonstrated by the "42.zip" compression bomb. Finally, it evaluates the effectiveness of these tools for defeating CFTs, presents strategies for their detection, and discusses countermeasures.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: 42.zip;  Anti-computer forensics;  Cybercrime;  EnCase;  Hacker tools;  Privacy enhancing tools\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1151\
Sutcu, Y., Bayram, S., Sencar, H.T., Memon, N.\
14322667200;24597383800;8616233200;7005458042;\
Improvements on sensor noise based source camera identification\
(2007) Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo, ICME 2007, art. no. 4284577, pp. 24-27. Cited 65 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-46449127762&doi=10.1109%2ficme.2007.4284577&partnerID=40&md5=6400b9fcd5e0404be8f0fac3bdd6940a\
\
DOI: 10.1109/icme.2007.4284577\
AFFILIATIONS: Polytechnic University, Electrical and Computer Engineering Dept., Brooklyn, NY 11201, United States; \
Polytechnic University, Computer and Information Science Dept., Brooklyn, NY 11201, United States\
ABSTRACT: In [1], a novel method for identifying the source camera of a digital image is proposed. The method is based on first extracting imaging sensor's pattern noise from many images and later verifying its presence in a given image through a correlative procedure. In this paper, we investigate the performance of this method in a more realistic setting and provide results concerning its detection performance. To improve the applicability of the method as a forensic tool, we propose an enhancement over it by also verifying that class properties of the image in question are in agreement with those of the camera. For this purpose, we identify and compare characteristics due to demosaicing operation. Our results show that the enhanced method offers a significant improvement in the performance. \'a9 2007 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Demosaicing artifacts;  Image forensics;  Pattern noise;  Source digital camera identification\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1152\
Van Lanh, T., Chong, K.-S., Emmanuel, S., Kankanhalli, M.S.\
24451242600;24450167800;10739143100;7003629165;\
A survey on digital camera image forensic methods\
(2007) Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo, ICME 2007, art. no. 4284575, pp. 16-19. Cited 95 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-46449095467&doi=10.1109%2ficme.2007.4284575&partnerID=40&md5=edebb2f997fc6002b000380ef6d05218\
\
DOI: 10.1109/icme.2007.4284575\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Uppsala University, Sweden; \
School of Computer Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, Singapore; \
School of Computing, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore\
ABSTRACT: There are two main interests in Digital Camera Image Forensics, namely source identification and forgery detection. In this paper, we first briefly provide an introduction to the major processing stages inside a digital camera and then review several methods for source digital camera identification and forgery detection. Existing methods for source identification explore the various processing stages inside a digital camera to derive the clues for distinguishing the source cameras while forgery detection checks for inconsistencies in image quality or for presence of certain characteristics as evidence of tampering. \'a9 2007 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1153\
Khan, M.N.A., Chatwin, C.R., Young, R.C.D.\
37036519300;7004490549;7405922676;\
A framework for post-event timeline reconstruction using neural networks\
(2007) Digital Investigation, 4 (3-4), pp. 146-157. Cited 29 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-40749151829&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2007.11.001&partnerID=40&md5=21764fa9182562ce48277d17465847df\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2007.11.001\
AFFILIATIONS: Industrial Informatics and Manufacturing Systems, Department of Engineering and Design, University of Sussex, Falmer, Brighton, East Sussex BN1 9QT, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Post-event timeline reconstruction plays a critical role in forensic investigation and serves as a means of identifying evidence of the digital crime. We present an artificial neural networks based approach for post-event timeline reconstruction using the file system activities. A variety of digital forensic tools have been developed during the past two decades to assist computer forensic investigators undertaking digital timeline analysis, but most of the tools cannot handle large volumes of data efficiently. This paper looks at the effectiveness of employing neural network methodology for computer forensic analysis by preparing a timeline of relevant events occurring on a computing machine by tracing the previous file system activities. Our approach consists of monitoring the file system manipulations, capturing file system snapshots at discrete intervals of time to characterise the use of different software applications, and then using this captured data to train a neural network to recognise execution patterns of the application programs. The trained version of the network may then be used to generate a post-event timeline of a seized hard disk to verify the execution of different applications at different time intervals to assist in the identification of available evidence. \'a9 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensic analysis;  Digital investigation;  Event reconstruction;  Neural networks\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1154\
Barik, M.S., Gupta, G., Sinha, S., Mishra, A., Mazumdar, C.\
8685931600;57213551100;7403739423;57199851469;57212855541;\
An efficient technique for enhancing forensic capabilities of Ext2 file system\
(2007) Digital Investigation, 4 (SUPPL.), pp. 55-61. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-34447620631&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2007.06.007&partnerID=40&md5=2d69682ade4f52c7fdbb0bf7a2ca88dd\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2007.06.007\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of CSE, Jadavpur University, Kolkata, 700032, India; \
IT Advisory, KPMG, India; \
Department of IT, Bengal Engineering and Science University, Shibpur, 711103, India\
ABSTRACT: As electronic documents become more important and valuable in the modern era, attempts are invariably made to take undue-advantage by tampering with them. Tampering with the modification, access and creation date and time stamps (MAC DTS) of digital documents pose a great threat and proves to be a major handicap in digital forensic investigation. Authentic date and time stamps (ADTS) can provide crucial evidence in linking crime to criminal in cases of Computer Fraud and Cyber Crimes (CFCC) through reliable time lining of digital evidence. But the ease with which the MAC DTS of stored digital documents can be changed raises some serious questions about the integrity and admissibility of digital evidence, potentially leading to rejection of acquired digital evidence in the court of Law. MAC DTS procedures of popular operating systems are inherently flawed and were created only for the sake of convenience and not necessarily keeping in mind the security and digital forensic aspects. This paper explores these issues in the context of the Ext2 file system and also proposes one solution to tackle such issues for the scenario where systems have preinstalled plug-ins in the form of Loadable Kernel Modules, which provide the capability to preserve ADTS. \'a9 2007 DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Authentic date and time stamps (ADTS);  Computer Frauds and Cyber Crimes (CFCC);  date and time stamps (MAC DTS);  Electronic documents;  Ext2 file system;  Loadable Kernel Module (LKM);  Modification access and creation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1155\
Schatz, B.\
14040853000;\
BodySnatcher: Towards reliable volatile memory acquisition by software\
(2007) Digital Investigation, 4 (SUPPL.), pp. 126-134. Cited 50 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-34447528955&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2007.06.009&partnerID=40&md5=706b6a84812bccad3e8741a3a169c6d0\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2007.06.009\
AFFILIATIONS: Evimetry, PO Box 6192, Fairfield Gardens, QLD 4103, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Recently there has been a surge in interest in memory forensics: the acquisition and analysis of the contents of physical memory obtained from live hosts. The emergence of kernel level rootkits, anti-forensics, and the threat of subversion that they pose threatens to undermine the reliability of such memory images and digital evidence in general. In this paper we propose a method of acquiring the contents of volatile memory from arbitrary operating systems in a manner that provides point in time atomic snapshots of the host OS volatile memory. Additionally the method is more resistant to subversion due to its reduced attack surface. Our method is to inject an independent, acquisition specific OS into the potentially subverted host OS kernel, snatching full control of the host's hardware. We describe an implementation of this proposal, which we call BodySnatcher, which has demonstrated proof of concept by acquiring memory from Windows 2000 operating systems. \'a9 2007 DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Memory acquisition;  Memory imaging;  Volatile memory forensics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1156\
Murphey, R.\
17135917500;\
Automated Windows event log forensics\
(2007) Digital Investigation, 4 (SUPPL.), pp. 92-100. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-34447504687&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2007.06.012&partnerID=40&md5=9b1f901b640bf2fd77550f6cebd00a00\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2007.06.012\
AFFILIATIONS: Applied Cognitive Solutions, Houston, TX, United States\
ABSTRACT: This paper proposes methods to automate recovery and analysis of Windows NT5 (XP and 2003) event logs for computer forensics. Requirements are formulated and methods are evaluated with respect to motivation and process models. A new, freely available tool is presented that, based on these requirements, automates the repair of a common type of corruption often observed in data carved NT5 event logs. This tool automates repair of multiple event logs in a single step without user intervention. The tool was initially developed to meet immediate needs of computer forensic engagements. Automating recovery, repair, and correlation of multiple logs make these methods more feasible for consideration in both a wider range of cases and earlier phases of cases, and hopefully, in turn, standard procedures. The tool was developed to fill a gap between capabilities of certain other freely available tools that may recover and correlate large volumes of log events, and consequently permit correlation with various other kinds of Windows artifacts. The methods are examined in the context of an example digital forensic service request intended to illustrate the kinds of civil cases that motivated this work. \'a9 2007 DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Automation;  Computer forensics;  Event logs;  Log analysis;  Process models;  Requirements;  Tool development;  Windows XP\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1157\
Richard III, G.G., Roussev, V., Marziale, L.\
7102387624;55903046300;16837308800;\
Forensic discovery auditing of digital evidence containers\
(2007) Digital Investigation, 4 (2), pp. 88-97. Cited 5 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-34447330979&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2007.04.002&partnerID=40&md5=272aa1aa7232e41c3cf31ba4fd3af2c5\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2007.04.002\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, University of New Orleans, New Orleans, LA 70148, United States\
ABSTRACT: Current digital forensics methods capture, preserve, and analyze digital evidence in general-purpose electronic containers (typically, plain files) with no dedicated support to help establish that the evidence has been properly handled. Auditing of a digital investigation, from identification and seizure of evidence through duplication and investigation is, essentially, ad hoc, recorded in separate log files or in an investigator's case notebook. Auditing performed in this fashion is bound to be incomplete, because different tools provide widely disparate amounts of auditing information - including none at all - and there is ample room for human error. The latter is a particularly pressing concern given the fast growth of the size of forensic targets. Recently, there has been a serious community effort to develop an open standard for specialized digital evidence containers (DECs). A DEC differs from a general purpose container in that, in addition to the actual evidence, it bundles arbitrary metadata associated with it, such as logs and notes, and provides the basic means to detect evidence-tampering through digital signatures. Current approaches consist of defining a container format and providing a specialized library that can be used to manipulate it. While a big step in the right direction, this approach has some non-trivial shortcomings - it requires the retooling of existing forensic software and, thereby, limits the number of tools available to the investigator. More importantly, however, it does not provide a complete solution since it only records snapshots of the state of the DEC without being able to provide\'a0a trusted log of all data operations actually performed on the evidence. Without a trusted log the question of whether a tool worked exactly as advertised cannot be answered with certainty, which opens the door to challenges (both legitimate and frivolous) of the results. In this paper, we propose a complementary mechanism, called the Forensic Discovery Auditing Module (FDAM), aimed at closing this loophole in the discovery process. FDAM can be thought of as a 'clean-room' environment for the manipulation of digital evidence, where evidence from containers is placed for controlled manipulation. It functions as an operating system component, which monitors and logs all access to the evidence and enforces policy restrictions. This allows the immediate, safe, and verifiable use of any tool deemed necessary by the examiner. In addition, the module can provide transparent support for multiple DEC formats, thereby greatly simplifying the adoption of open standards. \'a9 2007.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence containers Auditing;  Digital forensics;  Filesystems;  Operating systems internals\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1158\
Chen, Y., Roussev, V., Richard III, G., Gao, Y.\
57203833217;55903046300;7102387624;22834394100;\
Content-based image retrieval for digital forensics\
(2006) IFIP International Federation for Information Processing, 194, pp. 271-282. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-33845529842&doi=10.1007%2f0-387-31163-7_22&partnerID=40&md5=8cbeed95df35a3d1f0524947fd7ce60a\
\
DOI: 10.1007/0-387-31163-7_22\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensic investigators are often faced with the task of manually examining a large number of (photographic) images to identify potential evidence. The task can be daunting and time-consuming if the target of the investigation is very broad, such as a web hosting service. Current forensic tools are woefully inadequate: they are largely confined to generating pages of thumbnail images and identifying known files through cryptographic hashes. This paper presents a new approach that significantly automates the examination process by relying on image analysis techniques. The strategy is to use previously-identified content (e.g., contraband images) and to perform feature extraction, which captures mathematically the essential properties of the images. Based on this analysis, a feature set database is constructed to facilitate automatic scanning of a target machine for images similar to the ones in the database. An important property of the approach is that it is not possible to recover the original image from the feature set. Therefore, it is possible to build a (potentially very large) database targeting known contraband images that investigators may be barred from collecting directly. The approach can be used to automatically search for case-specific images, contraband or otherwise, and to provide online monitoring of shared storage for early detection of specific images. \'a9 2006 International Federation for Information Processing.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Image analysis;  Image retrieval\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1159\
Piper, S., Davis, M., Manes, G., Shenoi, S.\
36856631400;56287410600;7004354930;7007157603;\
Detecting hidden data in Ext2/Ext3 file systems\
(2006) IFIP International Federation for Information Processing, 194, pp. 245-256. Cited 16 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-33845513524&doi=10.1007%2f0-387-31163-7_20&partnerID=40&md5=c5dc7c580ebd238988da41f4d80b2ad4\
\
DOI: 10.1007/0-387-31163-7_20\
ABSTRACT: The use of digital forensic tools by law enforcement agencies has made it difficult for malicious individuals to hide potentially incriminating evidence. To combat this situation, the hacker community has developed anti-forensic tools that remove or hide electronic evidence for the specific purpose of undermining forensic investigations. This paper examines the latest techniques for hiding data in the popular Ext2 and Ext3 file systems. It also describes techniques for detecting hidden data in the reserved portions of these file systems. \'a9 2006 International Federation for Information Processing.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Data hiding;  Ext2/Ext3;  File systems\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1160\
Graves, J., Buchanan, W., Saliou, L., Old, J.\
49963613200;56206746600;9639920700;8889502500;\
Performance analysis of network based forensic systems for in-line and out-of-line detection and logging\
(2006) 5th European Conference on Information Warfare and Security 2006, ECIW 2006, pp. 41-50. Cited 2 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84873806451&partnerID=40&md5=24eaa8d19232341ca870344eede7a843\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Centre for Mobile Computing and Security, Napier University, Edinburgh, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: Network based forensic investigations often rely on data provided by properly configured networkbased devices. The logs from interconnected devices such as routers, servers and Intrusion Detection Systems (IDSs) can yield important information, which can be used during an investigation to piece together the events of a security incident. A device, such as a router, which performs its intended duties as well as logging tasks, can be defined as having in-line logging capabilities. A system that only performs these duties, such as an IDS, can be described as an out-of-line logging system. The usefulness of these logs, though, must be compared against the impact that they have on the systems that produce them. It is thus possible to introduce a detrimental burden on inline devices. This can thus reduce the capability of the device to provide core functionality, and, the extra evidence generated could place an increased burden on the forensic investigator. Therefore, when configuring network devices, the security practitioner is the key to producing a careful balance between security, performance and generated data volume. This paper outlines an intensive experiment to compare and contrast different logging schemes. These tests are placed within the scenario of a forensic investigation, which involves extensive data logging and analysis. The metrics compare CPU utilisation, bandwidth usage, memory buffers, usefulness of these records to the investigation, and so on. The two logging systems examined are the Cisco 20x series based routers, for in-line logging capabilities with Syslog, and the IDS Snort for out-of-line logging. This work provides an empirical perspective by plotting the footprint that this logging scheme has on the core network infrastructure, thus providing a proposed optimal logging approach for a network, along with the comparative merits of in-line and out-of-line auditing systems.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Intrusion detection;  Logging;  Network management;  Network performance\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1161\
Abraham, T.\
8750008900;\
Event Sequence Mining to Develop Profiles for Computer Forensic Investigation Purposes\
(2006) Conferences in Research and Practice in Information Technology Series, 54, pp. 145-153. Cited 10 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84872855806&partnerID=40&md5=f25d80b6b17a6ca9b9a4e27589a9bea7\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Information Networks Division, Defence Science and Technology Organisation, PO Box 1500, Edinburgh SA 5111, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Developing profiles to describe user or system behaviour is a useful technique employed in Computer Forensic investigations. Information found in data obtained by investigators can often be used to establish a view of regular usage patterns which can then be examined for unusual occurrences. This paper describes one such method based on details provided by events found within computer forensic evidence. Events compiled from potentially numerous sources are grouped according to some criteria and frequently occurring event sequences are established. The methodology and techniques to extract and contrast these sequences are then described and discussed along with similar prior work in the same domain. \'a9 2006, Australian Computer Society, Inc.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Data mining;  Event sequences\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1162\
Digital Forensic Research Workshop 2005\
(2006) Digital Forensic Research Workshop 2006, 194 p. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84868371255&partnerID=40&md5=2844b5cd957b78937252c22fbd585847\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 16 papers and 2 PowerPoint presentations. The topics discussed include: a cyber forensics ontology: creating a new approach to studying cyber forensics; FORZA - digital forensics investigation framework that incorporate legal issues; searching for processes and threads in Microsoft windows memory dumps; a survey of forensic characterization methods for physical devices; a strategy for testing hardware write block devices; arriving at an anti-forensics consensus: examining how to define and control the anti-forensics problem; XIRAF - XML-based indexing and querying for digital forensics; identifying almost identical files using context triggered piecewise hashing; selective and intelligent imaging using digital evidence bags; forensic feature extraction and cross-drive analysis; detecting false captioning using common-sense reasoning; and md5bloom: forensic filesystem hashing revisited.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1163\
Woodward, A.\
26421491900;\
LIARS-Laptop inspector and recovery system\
(2006) Proceedings of 4th Australian Digital Forensics Conference, . \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84867708460&partnerID=40&md5=6bfcae01ab5d3cce5acc6c8627fd42c3\
\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Computer and Information Science, Edith Cowan University, Perth, WA, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Of the many notebook computers which are stolen, a large number are subsequently recovered. However, if the device is password protected, and the serial number has been removed, then it is difficult for police or other authorities to trace the legitimate owner. The squad dedicated to computer related crime do not have sufficient resources to conduct a thorough forensic examination of every laptop in order to determine its rightful owner. This project aims to produce a tool which can be used by virtually any police officer, or other person, which does not alter the hard drive in any fashion. This tool will be used to identify the original owner of a laptop with a view to having it returned to them. This paper outlines the various phases of the project and the testing methods that will be used to validate the tool. \'a9 Andrew Woodward 2006.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Chntpw;  Forensic tools;  Linux;  Software validation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1164\
Schatz, B., Mohay, G., Clark, A.\
14040853000;6602866890;57214108644;\
A correlation method for establishing provenance of timestamps in digital evidence\
(2006) Digital Forensic Research Workshop 2006, pp. S98-S107. Cited 6 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84864599047&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2006.06.009&partnerID=40&md5=c5b9233e19f9f1be75d7cb25d7061a77\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2006.06.009\
AFFILIATIONS: Information Security Institute, Queensland University of Technology, GPO Box 2434, Brisbane 4001, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Establishing the time at which a particular event happened is a fundamental concern when relating cause and effect in any forensic investigation. Reliance on computer generated timestamps for correlating events is complicated by uncertainty as to clock skew and drift, environmental factors such as location and local time zone offsets, as well as human factors such as clock tampering. Establishing that a particular computer's temporal behaviour was consistent during its operation remains a challenge. The contributions of this paper are both a description of assumptions commonly made regarding the behaviour of clocks in computers, and empirical results demonstrating that real world behaviour diverges from the idealised or assumed behaviour.We present an approach for inferring the temporal behaviour of a particular computer over a range of time by correlating commonly available local machine timestamps with another source of timestamps. We show that a general characterisation of the passage of time may be inferred from an analysis of commonly available browser records. \'a9 2006 DFRWS. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Event correlation;  Reverse engineering;  Timestamp interpretation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1165\
Arasteh, A.R., Debbabi, M., Sakha, A.\
17134272600;57203104171;17136241300;\
A formal approach for the forensic analysis of logs\
(2006) Proceedings of 5th International Conference on New Trends in Software Methodologies, Tools and Techniques, SoMeT_06, 18 p. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84860313548&partnerID=40&md5=159bc7e049165051ee08ab27fb8aa790\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Security Laboratory, Concordia University, Montreal, QC, Canada\
ABSTRACT: The increasing trend of computer crimes has intensified the relevance of cyber-forensics. In such a context, forensic analysis plays a major role by analyzing the evidence gathered from the crime scene and corroborating facts about the committed crime. In this paper, we propose a formal approach for the forensic log analysis. The proposed approached is based on the logical modelling of the events and the traces of the victim system as formulas over a modified version of the ADM logic[12]. In order to illustrate the proposed approach, the Windows auditing system[21] is studied. We will discuss the importance of the different features of such a system from the forensic standpoint (e.g. the ability to log accesses to specific files and registry keys and the abundance of information that can be extracted from these logs). Furthermore, we will capture logically: Invariant properties of a system, forensic hypotheses, generic or specific attack signatures. Moreover, we will discuss the admissibility of forensics hypotheses and the underlying verification issues.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Cyber forensics;  Formal verification;  Log analysis;  Logic;  Semantics\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1166\
Turner, P.\
57198970390;\
Selective and intelligent imaging using digital evidence bags\
(2006) Digital Forensic Research Workshop 2006, pp. S59-S64. Cited 13 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-70350492844&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2006.06.003&partnerID=40&md5=1024bc9d9e6a48cb9b512c97bb9f4dca\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2006.06.003\
AFFILIATIONS: QinetiQ, Digital Investigation Services, Trusted Information Management Department, St. Andrews Road, Malvern Worcestershire WR14 3PS, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: This paper defines what selective imaging is, and the types of selective imaging that can be performed. This is contrasted with intelligent imaging and the additional capabilities that have to be built into an imager for it to be 'intelligent'. A selective information capture scenario is demonstrated using the digital evidence bag (DEB) storage format. A DEB is a universal container for digital evidence from any source that allows the provenance to be recorded and continuity to be maintained throughout the life of the investigation. The paper concludes by defining the 'ultimate test' for an intelligent and selective imager approach. \'a9 2006 DFRWS. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence bags;  Digital forensics;  Digital investigation;  Intelligent imaging;  Selective imaging\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1167 **SELECTED** SID: 66\
Piper, S., Davis, M., Shenoi, S.\
36856631400;56287410600;7007157603;\
Countering hostile forensic techniques\
(2006) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 222, pp. 79-90. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-34047237632&doi=10.1007%2f978-0-387-36891-7-7&partnerID=40&md5=3dbcd84d0c1c42ebcfb859d86d91689b\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-0-387-36891-7-7\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Tulsa, Tulsa, OK, United States\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensic investigations can be subverted by hostile forensic techniques and tools. This paper examines various hostile forensic techniques, including the exploitation of vulnerabilities in standard forensic procedures and denial of service attacks on forensic tools during imaging and analysis. Several techniques for concealing evidence within file systems and external to file systems are highlighted. In addition, strategies for countering hostile forensic techniques and tools are discussed. \'a9 2006 Springer-Verlag US.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Denial of service;  Evidence concealment;  Hostile forensics;  Subversion\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1168 **SELECTED** SID: 67\
Wojcik, M., Venter, H., Eloff, J., Olivier, M.\
15021662000;7005841055;35608775600;7101741068;\
Applying machine trust models to forensic investigations\
(2006) IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology, 222, pp. 55-65. Cited 8 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-34047205708&doi=10.1007%2f978-0-387-36891-7-5&partnerID=40&md5=82f6101eee9334854b6caff27d55c190\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-0-387-36891-7-5\
AFFILIATIONS: University of Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics involves the identification, preservation, analysis and presentation of electronic evidence for use in legal proceedings. In the presence of contradictory evidence, forensic investigators need a means to determine which evidence can be trusted. This is particularly true in a trust model environment where computerised agents may make trust-based decisions that influence interactions within the system. This paper focuses on the analysis of evidence in trust-based environments and the determination of the degree to which evidence can be trusted. The trust model proposed in this work may be implemented in a tool for conducting trust-based forensic investigations. The model takes into account the trust environment and parameters that influence interactions in a computer network being investigated. Also, it allows for crimes to be reenacted to create more substantial evidentiary proof. \'a9 2006 Springer-Verlag US.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence;  Forensic investigations;  Trust models\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1169\
Johnson, M.K., Farid, H.\
8579839200;7007029048;\
Exposing digital forgeries by detecting inconsistencies in lighting\
(2006) Proceedings of the 7th Multimedia and Security Workshop 2005, MM and Sec'05, 2006, pp. 1-9. Cited 306 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-33748068816&partnerID=40&md5=d876829ce2b2f8292c3aa921c59df685\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH 03755, United States\
ABSTRACT: When creating a digital composite of, for example, two people standing side-by-side, it is often difficult to match the lighting conditions from the individual photographs. Lighting inconsistencies can therefore be a useful tool for revealing traces of digital tampering. Borrowing and extending tools from the field of computer vision, we describe how the direction of a point light source can be estimated from only a single image. We show the efficacy of this approach in real-world settings. Copyright 2005 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital Forensics;  Digital Tampering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1170 **SELECTED** SID: 68\
Piper, S., Davis, M., Shenoi, S.\
36856631400;56287410600;7007157603;\
Countering hostile forensic techniques\
(2006) IFIP International Federation for Information Processing, 222, pp. 79-90. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85088738633&doi=10.1007%2f0-387-36891-4_7&partnerID=40&md5=92c791540ae9e2c250608179d9c23fcf\
\
DOI: 10.1007/0-387-36891-4_7\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensic investigations can be subverted by hostile forensic techniques and tools. This paper examines various hostile forensic techniques, including the exploitation of vulnerabilities in standard forensic procedures and denial of service attacks on forensic tools during imaging and analysis. Several techniques for concealing evidence within file systems and external to file systems are highlighted. In addition, strategies for countering hostile forensic techniques and tools are discussed.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Denial of service;  Evidence concealment;  Hostile forensics;  Subversion\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1171 **SELECTED** SID: 69\
Wojcik, M., Venter, H., Eloff, J., Olivier, M.\
15021662000;7005841055;35608775600;7101741068;\
Applying machine trust models to forensic investigations\
(2006) IFIP International Federation for Information Processing, 222, pp. 55-65. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85088053558&doi=10.1007%2f0-387-36891-4_5&partnerID=40&md5=a96c18e87c58ee04f7693a084d1690fb\
\
DOI: 10.1007/0-387-36891-4_5\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensics involves the identification, preservation, analysis and presentation of electronic evidence for use in legal proceedings. In the presence of contradictory evidence, forensic investigators need a means to determine which evidence can be trusted. This is particularly true in a trust model environment where computerised agents may make trust-based decisions that influence interactions within the system. This paper focuses on the analysis of evidence in trust-based environments and the determination of the degree to which evidence can be trusted. The trust model proposed in this work may be implemented in a tool for conducting trust-based forensic investigations. The model takes into account the trust environment and parameters that influence interactions in a computer network being investigated. Also, it allows for crimes to be reenacted to create more substantial evidentiary proof.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence;  Forensic investigations;  Trust models\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1172\
Rekhis, S., Boudriga, N.\
8546749800;6701876349;\
Opacity: A theoretical technique for digital investigation\
(2006) Proceedings - 2006 International Conference on Information and Communication Technologies: From Theory to Applications, ICTTA 2006, 2, art. no. 1684942, pp. 3281-3286. Cited 1 time.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-70349908828&doi=10.1109%2fICTTA.2006.1684942&partnerID=40&md5=9e61d5e1e074f59510f015e63df35d41\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICTTA.2006.1684942\
AFFILIATIONS: C and NS Research Lab., University of 7th of November at Carthage, Tunisia\
ABSTRACT: We present in this paper a novel approach that integrates opacity theory to digital forensic investigation. Our approach adds multi-observability and new classes of properties to opacity. It shows the appropriateness of using opacity in proving evidences related to hacking activities and characterizes what is provable. A temporal logic of security action and a case study are developed for integration needs. \'a9 2006 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1173\
Wang, W., Farid, H.\
51562721100;7007029048;\
Exposing digital forgeries in video by detecting double MPEG compression\
(2006) Proceedings of the Multimedia and Security Workshop 2006, MM and Sec'06, 2006, pp. 37-47. Cited 203 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-33750927408&doi=10.1145%2f1161366.1161375&partnerID=40&md5=1b601dca6fda754476853b92da773433\
\
DOI: 10.1145/1161366.1161375\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH 03755, United States\
ABSTRACT: With the advent of sophisticated and low-cost video editing software, it is becoming increasingly easier to tamper with digital video. In addition, an ever-growing number of video surveillance cameras is giving rise to an enormous amount of video data. The ability to ensure the integrity and authenticity of this data poses considerable challenges. Here we begin to explore techniques for detecting traces of tampering in digital video. Specifically, we show how a doublycompressed MPEG video sequence introduces specific static and temporal statistical perturbations whose presence can be used as evidence of tampering. Copyright 2006 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Digital tampering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1174\
Farid, H.\
7007029048;\
Exposing digital forgeries in scientific images\
(2006) Proceedings of the Multimedia and Security Workshop 2006, MM and Sec'06, 2006, pp. 29-36. Cited 57 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-33750910780&doi=10.1145%2f1161366.1161374&partnerID=40&md5=1c40544a8f61b8429df1228843108701\
\
DOI: 10.1145/1161366.1161374\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH 03755, United States\
ABSTRACT: A recent case of scientific fraud, involving manipulated images in a high-profile scientific publication, has sent shockwaves through the scientific community. By some measures, however, this case is not isolated - in at least one journal, it is estimated that as many as 20% of accepted manuscripts contain figures with inappropriate manipulations, and 1% with fraudulent manipulations. Several scientific editors are considering putting safeguards in place to help reduce these numbers. While sensible policy and awareness are certainly important, there is likely to be a need for computational techniques that automatically detect common forms of tampering. We describe three such techniques for detecting traces of tampering in scientific images. Specifically, image segmentation techniques are employed to detect image deletion, "healing", and duplication. Copyright 2006 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Digital tampering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1175\
Schatz, B., Mohay, G., Clark, A.\
14040853000;6602866890;57214108644;\
A correlation method for establishing provenance of timestamps in digital evidence\
(2006) Digital Investigation, 3 (SUPPL.), pp. 98-107. Cited 24 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-33746009068&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2006.06.009&partnerID=40&md5=e61823e1bb964d4dbed7ac6709661d83\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2006.06.009\
AFFILIATIONS: Information Security Institute, Queensland University of Technology, GPO Box 2434, Brisbane, 4001, Australia\
ABSTRACT: Establishing the time at which a particular event happened is a fundamental concern when relating cause and effect in any forensic investigation. Reliance on computer generated timestamps for correlating events is complicated by uncertainty as to clock skew and drift, environmental factors such as location and local time zone offsets, as well as human factors such as clock tampering. Establishing that a particular computer's temporal behaviour was consistent during its operation remains a challenge. The contributions of this paper are both a description of assumptions commonly made regarding the behaviour of clocks in computers, and empirical results demonstrating that real world behaviour diverges from the idealised or assumed behaviour. We present an approach for inferring the temporal behaviour of a particular computer over a range of time by correlating commonly available local machine timestamps with another source of timestamps. We show that a general characterisation of the passage of time may be inferred from an analysis of commonly available browser records. \'a9 2006 DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Event correlation;  Reverse engineering;  Timestamp interpretation\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1176 **SELECTED** SID: 70\
Harris, R.\
34769949200;\
Arriving at an anti-forensics consensus: Examining how to define and control the anti-forensics problem\
(2006) Digital Investigation, 3 (SUPPL.), pp. 44-49. Cited 89 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-33745977740&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2006.06.005&partnerID=40&md5=cca48290bf9f16e5f8578036090862e5\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2006.06.005\
AFFILIATIONS: CERIAS, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 47907, United States\
ABSTRACT: There are no general frameworks with which we may analyze the anti-forensics situation. Solving anti-forensic issues requires that we create a consensus view of the problem itself. This paper attempts to arrive at a standardized method of addressing anti-forensics by defining the term, categorizing the anti-forensics techniques and outlining general guidelines to protect forensic integrity. \'a9 2006 DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Digital evidence;  Digital forensics;  Evidence manipulation;  Guidelines\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1177\
Turner, P.\
57198970390;\
Selective and intelligent imaging using digital evidence bags\
(2006) Digital Investigation, 3 (SUPPL.), pp. 59-64. Cited 30 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-33745970746&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2006.06.003&partnerID=40&md5=33ee62a7ae98b6e8bd01db6979d8b831\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2006.06.003\
AFFILIATIONS: QinetiQ, Digital Investigation Services, Trusted Information Management Department, St. Andrews Road, Malvern, Worcestershire WR14 3PS, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: This paper defines what selective imaging is, and the types of selective imaging that can be performed. This is contrasted with intelligent imaging and the additional capabilities that have to be built into an imager for it to be 'intelligent'. A selective information capture scenario is demonstrated using the digital evidence bag (DEB) storage format. A DEB is a universal container for digital evidence from any source that allows the provenance to be recorded and continuity to be maintained throughout the life of the investigation. The paper concludes by defining the 'ultimate test' for an intelligent and selective imager approach. \'a9 2006 DFRWS.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital evidence bags;  Digital forensics;  Digital investigation;  Intelligent imaging;  Selective imaging\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1178 **SELECTED** SID: 71\
Sartin, B.\
13806423300;\
ANTI-Forensics - distorting the evidence\
(2006) Computer Fraud and Security, 2006 (5), pp. 4-6. Cited 7 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-33744527553&doi=10.1016%2fS1361-3723%2806%2970354-2&partnerID=40&md5=fef69f36f5989b55d3ac1476c4bd07da\
\
DOI: 10.1016/S1361-3723(06)70354-2\
ABSTRACT: Computer forensic investigators rely on high quality evidence to win a case. Logs, authentication information, date and timestamps, file contents and other electronic data all need to be proven to be reliable in court. But what happens when criminals are actively trying to ruin the evidence? ANTI Forensic techniques are now being used to skew evidence and make it impossible for an examiner to use. According to Brian Sartin at ISACA, ANTI forensics is used in two-thirds of all data compromise investigations carried out by his organization. Examiners need to be on the look out for three methods of distorting evidence: Data Obfuscation, Data Hiding and Zero-footprinting. Almost every case will use some form of data obfuscation that involves a hacker erasing his tracks. But Data hiding draws on the power of cryptography to mask data rather than delete it The use of steganography is another data hiding approach. Examiners need to actively search for evidence of the use of ANTI-forensic techniques. Computer Forensics (CF), as we know it, is in a volatile state. Newer and more sophisticated investigative challenges, both existing and on the horizon, are forcing CF to evolve as a practice. As such, the processes, the technologies, and the tools of the trade that characterise the conventional CF approach have changed. Simply put, CF today is not what it used to be and there are some very simple reasons why. \'a9 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1179\
Digital Forensic Research Workshop 2005\
(2005) Digital Forensic Research Workshop 2005, 115 p. \
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84868368481&partnerID=40&md5=2b32fa2cecde3f1db08f885922f4eecb\
\
ABSTRACT: The proceedings contain 13 papers. The topics discussed include: data hiding in journaling file systems; design and implementation of Zeitline: a forensic timeline editor; evaluating commercial counter-forensic tools; automated digital evidence target definition using outlier analysis and existing evidence; preparing for large-scale investigations with case domain modeling; automatically creating realistic targets for digital forensics investigation; file hound: a forensics tool for first responders; revisiting risk sensitive digital evidence collection; monitoring access to shared memory-mapped files; unification of digital evidence from disparate sources (digital evidence bags); reproducibility of digital evidence in forensic investigations; and network forensics analysis with evidence graphs (demo proposal).\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1178 **SELECTED** SID: 72\
Geiger, M.\
54781268200;\
Evaluating commercial counter-forensic tools\
(2005) Digital Forensic Research Workshop 2005, 12 p. Cited 34 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84868360132&partnerID=40&md5=85b8db64eb6ff4e100f16e8d4818863a\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, United States\
ABSTRACT: Digital forensic analysts may find their task complicated by any of more than a dozen commercial software packages designed to irretrievably erase files and records of computer activity. These counter-forensic tools have been used to eliminate evidence in criminal and civil legal proceedings and represent an area of continuing concern for forensic investigators. In this paper, we review the performance of six counter-forensic tools and highlight operational shortfalls that could permit the recovery of significant evidentiary data. In addition, each tool creates a distinct operational fingerprint that an analyst may use to identify the application used and, thus, guide the search for residual data. These operational fingerprints may also help demonstrate the use of a tool in cases where such action has legal ramifications.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1179\
Chang, I.-C., Hsu, B.-W., Laih, C.S.\
15924976500;15925340900;7005388605;\
A DCT quantization-based image authentication system for digital forensics\
(2005) Proceedings - First International Workshop on Systematic Approaches to Digital Forensic Engineering, 2005, art. no. 1592535, pp. 223-235. Cited 9 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-33847193881&doi=10.1109%2fSADFE.2005.1&partnerID=40&md5=65fbc37752ebb02fa5f5da5e83490c2a\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SADFE.2005.1\
AFFILIATIONS: Institute of Computer and Communication, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan\
ABSTRACT: With the advent of digital times, the digital data has gradually taken the place of the original analog data. However, the authenticity of digital data faces a great challenge due to the fact that the digital edit software is ubiquitous. It has aroused the suspicion on the reliability of digital data especially when the digital data renders to the court as the digital evidence. We propose an integrated image authentication system for digital forensics and improve the detection problems of a DCT quantization-based image authentication scheme. The improved detection schemes will effectively solve the detection problems and, at the same time, take into account the reliability, the security, and the practicability of the system. It is expected to reduce the wrong detection probability of the digital evidence. Finally, the improved image authentication schemes will be implemented. If the digital evidence presented to the court is under suspicions, the system is expected to provide accurate information to help the judiciary to make the verdict right and objective. \'a9 2005 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1180\
Rekhis, S., Boudriga, N.\
8546749800;6701876349;\
A temporal logic-based model for forensic investigation in networked system security\
(2005) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 3685 LNCS, pp. 325-338. Cited 14 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-33646162634&doi=10.1007%2f11560326_25&partnerID=40&md5=cc42c408d5580ecfaa9f5569f2f04e47\
\
DOI: 10.1007/11560326_25\
AFFILIATIONS: CN and S Research Lab., University of the 7th of November, Carthage, Tunisia\
ABSTRACT: Research in computer and network forensic investigation has recently addressed the development of procedural guidelines, technical documents, and semi-automation tools. It has however omitted the need of formal proof. This work provides a novel approach that formalizes and automates the proof in digital forensic investigation. First, it brings out a formal logic-based language, called S-TLA+, to enable reasoning on systems with uncertainty, by adding forward hypotheses to fulfill potential lack of details. S-TLA+ is suitable for the description of evidences, as well as elementary scenarios fragments representing the investigators knowledge. Secondly, the proposal provides an automated verification tool, S-TLC, to prove the correctness of S-TLA+ specifications. It checks whether there are possible hacking scenarios that meet the available digital evidences, and explores additional evidences. To demonstrate its effectiveness, the formalized analysis is applied on a compromised host. \'a9 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2005.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1181\
Rekhis, S., Boudriga, N.\
8546749800;6701876349;\
A formal logic-based language and an automated verification tool for computer forensic investigation\
(2005) Proceedings of the ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, 1, pp. 287-291. Cited 11 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-22944458739&doi=10.1145%2f1066677.1066745&partnerID=40&md5=2e0bca222e4964b9286be80aabf28cf8\
\
DOI: 10.1145/1066677.1066745\
AFFILIATIONS: Communication Networks and Security Research Lab (SUP'COM), University of Carthage, November 7Th, Tunisia\
ABSTRACT: In this paper, a formal logic-based language, called S-TLA+, is proposed for computer forensic investigation. It allows an unambiguous description of evidences, a modeling of the forensic expert knowledge in the form of hacking scenarios fragments, and a reasoning capability with uncertainty by filling in potential lack of data with hypotheses. The proposal is complemented by an automated formal verification tool, called S-TLC which helps exploring additional evidences and checks whether there are plausible hacking scenarios that meet the available evidences. Copyright 2005 ACM.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Formal Forensic Investigation;  S-TLA +;  S-TLC;  Temporal Logic of Security Actions\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1182\
Popescu, A.C., Farid, H.\
7102635957;7007029048;\
Exposing digital forgeries in color filter array interpolated images\
(2005) IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, 53 (10 II), pp. 3948-3959. Cited 468 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-27844493797&doi=10.1109%2fTSP.2005.855406&partnerID=40&md5=66ca36617098bae17e493ef2486aaf25\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TSP.2005.855406\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Science Department, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH 03755, United States; \
6211 Sudikoff Lab., Computer Science Department, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH 03755, United States\
ABSTRACT: With the advent of low-cost and high-resolution digital cameras, and sophisticated photo editing software, digital images can be easily manipulated and altered. Although good forgeries may leave no visual clues of having been tampered with, they may, nevertheless, alter the underlying statistics of an image. Most digital cameras, for example, employ a single sensor in conjunction with a color filter array (CFA), and then interpolate the missing color samples to obtain a three channel color image. This interpolation introduces specific correlations which are likely to be destroyed when tampering with an image. We quantify the specific correlations introduced by CFA interpolation, and describe how these correlations, or lack thereof, can be automatically detected in any portion of an image. We show the efficacy of this approach in revealing traces of digital tampering in lossless and lossy compressed color images interpolated with several different CFA algorithms. \'a9 2005 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Digital tampering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1183\
Popescu, A.C., Farid, H.\
7102635957;7007029048;\
Exposing digital forgeries by detecting traces of resampling\
(2005) IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, 53 (2 II), pp. 758-767. Cited 714 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-13244251141&doi=10.1109%2fTSP.2004.839932&partnerID=40&md5=0bbf9bf3f11a4245ff4b197562c13956\
\
DOI: 10.1109/TSP.2004.839932\
AFFILIATIONS: Computer Science Department, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH 03755, United States\
ABSTRACT: The unique stature of photographs as a definitive recording of events is being diminished due, in part, to the ease with which digital images can be manipulated and altered. Although good forgeries may leave no visual clues of having been tampered with, they may, nevertheless, alter the underlying statistics of an image. For example, we describe how resampling (e.g., scaling or rotating) introduces specific statistical correlations, and describe how these correlations can be automatically detected in any portion of an image. This technique works in the absence of any digital watermark or signature. We show the efficacy of this approach on uncompressed TIFF images, and JPEG and GIF images with minimal compression. We expect this technique to be among the first of many tools that will be needed to expose digital forgeries. \'a9 2005 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Digital forensics;  Digital tampering\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1184\
Tang, Y., Daniels, T.E.\
57286155100;57207782436;\
A simple framework for distributed forensics\
(2005) Proceedings - International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems, . Cited 20 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-77950249486&doi=10.1109%2fICDCSW.2005.24&partnerID=40&md5=3328341fa6fe778320d3a3c52639ec9a\
\
DOI: 10.1109/ICDCSW.2005.24\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Iowa State University, Ames, IA  50011, United States\
ABSTRACT: Networks have become omnipresent in today\'92s world and part of the basic infrastructure. The safety problem is important and urgent for all the network users. But the current situation in this field is very severe \'96 not only is it difficult to block network criminals but also in many cases unable to find them out. There is a growing need for systems that allow not only the detection of complex attacks, but after the fact understanding of what happened. This could be used in a forensic sense or simply as a managerial tool to recover and repair damaged systems. There are few network systems that support forensic evidence collection and the current systems also lack effective attack attribution. In this paper, we will provide a network forensics framework based on the distributed techniques thereby providing an integrated platform for automatic forensic evidence collection and efficient data storage, supporting easy integration of known attribution methods, effective cooperation and an attack attribution graph generation mechanism to illustrate hacking procedures. \'a9 2005 IEEE.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Agent;  Attack attribution graph;  Distributed forensics system;  Proxy\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1185\
Bruschi, D., Monga, M., Rosti, E.\
6601999653;7102893575;6603554034;\
Trusted Internet Forensics: Design of a network forensics appliance\
(2005) Workshop of the 1st International Conference on Security and Privacy for Emerging Areas in Communication Networks, 2005, 2005, art. no. 1588292, pp. 33-35. Cited 4 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-33847034403&doi=10.1109%2fSECCMW.2005.1588292&partnerID=40&md5=12ee1e37229170432167daec9923a428\
\
DOI: 10.1109/SECCMW.2005.1588292\
AFFILIATIONS: Dip. di Informatica e Comunicazione, Universit\'e0 degli Studi di Milano, Italy\
ABSTRACT: With the spreading of cyber-crime, computer forensics has emerged as a new discipline in the system security arena. Some work is being done towards the definition of methodologies for the collection of digital evidences from storage devices that can withstand legal analysis in court. On the contrary, the collection of network evidences that allows for a selection of the traffic and guarantees legal admissibility is still an open field. In this paper we present the architecture of TIF, Trusted Internet Forensics, a network appliance that collects data from the network for forensics purposes. Such an appliance relies on a Trusted Computing Platform in order to allow for the verification of the computational chain so that the data collected could be used as evidence in court. \'a9 2005 IEEE.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1186\
Turner, P.\
57198970390;\
Digital provenance - Interpretation, verification and corroboration\
(2005) Digital Investigation, 2 (1), pp. 45-49. Cited 15 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-14544294808&doi=10.1016%2fj.diin.2005.01.002&partnerID=40&md5=6a4a3e94126982036d1248205fb1d948\
\
DOI: 10.1016/j.diin.2005.01.002\
AFFILIATIONS: QinetiQ, Digital Investigation Services, United Kingdom; \
School of Technology, Oxford Brookes University, Oxford OX33 1HX, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: This paper defines the attributes that are required to provide 'good' provenance. The various sources that may be used to verify the provenance of digital information during the investigation of a Microsoft\'ae Windows\'ae based computer system are presented. This paper shows how provenance can be corroborated by artefacts which indicate how a computer system was connected to the outside world and the capabilities that it provided to a user. Finally consideration is given to a number of commonly used forensic tools and shows how they represent the provenance of information to an investigator. \'a9 2005 Published by Elsevier Ltd.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Computer forensics;  Digital forensics;  Evidence corroboration;  Evidence interpretation;  Provenance\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1187\
Popescu, A.C., Farid, H.\
7102635957;7007029048;\
Statistical Tools for Digital Forensics\
(2004) Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), 3200, pp. 128-147. Cited 211 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-35048816032&doi=10.1007%2f978-3-540-30114-1_10&partnerID=40&md5=14885d4f75e332407b71ce1eebb9ee3d\
\
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-30114-1_10\
AFFILIATIONS: Department of Computer Science, Dartmouth College, United States; \
6211 Sudikoff Lab, Dartmouth College, Hanover NH 03755, United States\
ABSTRACT: A digitally altered photograph, often leaving no visual clues of having been tampered with, can be indistinguishable from an authentic photograph. As a result, photographs no longer hold the unique stature as a definitive recording of events. We describe several statistical techniques for detecting traces of digital tampering in the absence of any digital watermark or signature. In particular, we quantify statistical correlations that result from specific forms of digital tampering, and devise detection schemes to reveal these correlations. \'a9 Springer-Verlag 2004.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1188\
Wang, L., Qian, H.-L.\
57196339236;9743406800;\
Computer forensics and its future trend\
(2003) Ruan Jian Xue Bao/Journal of Software, 14 (9), pp. 1635-1644. Cited 24 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-0346252711&partnerID=40&md5=7862c1f5d58a4cf607cd955dae0de3fd\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Comp. Network Info. Ctr., Chinese Acad. of Sci., Beijing 100080, China; \
Inst. of Comp. Technol., Chinese Acad. of Sci., Beijing 100080, China; \
Graduate Sch., Chinese Acad. of Sci., Beijing 100039, China\
ABSTRACT: Computer forensics is the technology field that attempts to prove thorough, efficient, and secure means to investigate computer crime. Computer evidence must be authentic, accurate, complete and convincing to juries. The stages of computer forensics are presented, and the theories and the realization of the forensics software are described. An example about forensic practice is also given. The deficiency of computer forensics technique and anti-forensics are also discussed. The result comes out that it is as the improvement of computer science technology, the forensics technique will become more integrated and thorough.\
AUTHOR KEYWORDS: Anti-forensics;  Computer crime;  Computer forensic;  Computer security\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Article\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1189\
Yasinsac, A., Erbacher, R.F., Marks, D.G., Pollitt, M.M., Sommer, P.M.\
8303393500;7003584526;7202505935;19640348300;7005907820;\
Computer forensics education\
(2003) IEEE Security and Privacy, 1 (4), pp. 15-23. Cited 73 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-3042745245&doi=10.1109%2fMSECP.2003.1219052&partnerID=40&md5=da93d16e7750b2c537771f2a7226c98a\
\
DOI: 10.1109/MSECP.2003.1219052\
AFFILIATIONS: Florida State University, United States; \
Utah State University, United States; \
Central Michigan University, United States; \
US Federal Bureau of Investigation, United States; \
LSE Comp. Security Research Centre, United Kingdom; \
Computer Science Dept., Florida State Univ., Tallahassee, FL 32306-4530, United States; \
Dept. of Computer Science, Utah State Univ., 4205 Old Main Dr., Logon, UT 84322-4205, United States; \
Dept. of Mathematical Sciences, Univ. of Tulso, Tulsa, OK 74104, United States; \
London Sch. of Econ./Polit. Science, Houghton St., London WC2 2AE, United Kingdom\
ABSTRACT: The applications of science and education to computer-related crime forensics are discussed. The forensic equipment, tools and techniques must have scientific validation and produce accurate result. A reasonable computer forensics education, identification of skills and positions such as educational program is required. To structure topics in computer forensics four categories are classified such as evidence collection, evidence preservation, evidence presentation and forensic preparation. A comprehensive computer and network forensics (CNF) must include variety of topics which are educational and reflect an appropriate level of academic abstraction.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Review\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1190\
Duren, B.M., Hosmer, C.\
57209771577;6603502676;\
Can digital evidence endure the test of time?\
(2002) Proceedings of the Digital Forensic Research Conference, DFRWS 2002 USA, . Cited 3 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-85083946081&partnerID=40&md5=1c3c439c558214dbf79dfe1d23631931\
\
AFFILIATIONS: WetStone Technologies, Inc., United States\
ABSTRACT: As we accelerate our move into the digital age, more and more information is becoming available in digital form. The multitude of systems and processes that generate digital information is vast. The availability of technology has not only provided an effective way for this information to be stored, but has encouraged the growth of the information data set for the world. The rate at which digital information is produced today is incomprehensible, as digital pictures, financial information, communications, phone records, transaction logs, books, and movies are all now increasingly being used in digital form. These changes in technology and culture are having a profound impact on the forensic sciences, as the likelihood that information pertaining to a crime can be found in digital form is high and ever increasing. As a result, the forensic investigator needs state-of-the-art tools and capabilities for extracting, filtering, and analyzing information that might have an impact on a case. And, once this data is found, there is still the task of preserving it with integrity in order to both perform effective and reliable forensic analysis, and for eventual presentation in a court of law. Although we have begun to see advancements in forensics extraction and analysis tools, there is much work to be done to provide technology that can effectively manage and ensure the integrity of digital evidence. Fortunately the computer science and information security field has defined integrity as it pertains to digital information and has contributed a multitude of methods for protecting the integrity of digital data \'96 at least in the general case. Digital integrity can be defined as, \'93the property whereby digital data has not been altered in an unauthorized manner since the time it was created, transmitted, or stored by an authorized source\'94. [1] Applying and adapting methods from computer science and information security to the domain of digital evidence is complex and involves technology and the expertise and understanding of what it means to prove the integrity of this digital data that happens to be evidence. The question then is what are we actually trying to prove? Using hashes (operations done to transform one or more fields into a different arrangement) and other cryptographic methodologies, the contents of a piece of digital evidence can be preserved. Mapping this to the definition for integrity above, these mechanisms provide an almost impenetrable means for ensuring that digital information \'93has not been altered.\'94 Cryptographic hashes can be used to protect evidence from tampering for long periods of time. Using algorithms such as SHA-1 or even the new SHA-2, content integrity can be attested to for many years even under distributed brute force attack. Adding digital signatures to the mix provides a strong and very effective means for proving the \'93who\'94 of preserved digital data. Thus by applying cryptographic hashes and digital signature technology to the problem of evidence preservation the \'93who\'94 and \'93what\'94 of digital data can be maintained with very high levels of integrity. \'a9 2002 Digital Forensic Research Workshop. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1191\
Marcella, A.J., Jr., Greenfield, R.S.\
55144071400;57204602773;\
Cyber forensics: A field manual for collecting, examining, and preserving evidence of computer crimes\
(2002) Cyber Forensics: A Field Manual for Collecting, Examining, and Preserving Evidence of Computer Crimes, pp. 1-445. Cited 50 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84873201213&doi=10.1201%2f9781420000115&partnerID=40&md5=0de18e54fbd75e51a178b7c635724e74\
\
DOI: 10.1201/9781420000115\
AFFILIATIONS: School of Business and Technology, Department of Management, Webster University, Saint Louis, MO, United States; \
Microsoft, United States\
ABSTRACT: Given our increasing dependency on computing technology in daily business processes, and the growing opportunity to use engineering technologies to engage in illegal, unauthorized, and unethical acts aimed at corporate infrastructure, every organization is at risk. Cyber Forensics: A Field Manual for Collecting, Examining, and Preserving Evidence of Computer Crimes provides a comprehensive, highly usable, and clearly organized resource to the issues, tools, and control techniques needed to successfully investigate illegal activities perpetuated through the use of information technology. Traditional forensics professionals use fingerprints, DNA typing, and ballistics analysis to make their case. Infosec professionals have to develop new tools for collecting, examining, and evaluating data in an effort to establish intent, culpability, motive, means, methods and loss resulting from e-crimes. The field bible for infosecurity professionals, this book introduces you to the broad field of cyber forensics and presents the various tools and techniques designed to maintain control over your organization.You will understand how to: \uc0\u8706  Identify inappropriate uses of corporate IT \u8706  Examine computing environments to identify and gather electronic evidence of wrongdoing \u8706  Secure corporate systems from further misuse \u8706  Identify individuals responsible for engaging in inappropriate acts taken with or without corporate computing systems \u8706  Protect and secure electronic evidence from intentional or accidental modification or destruction Cyber Forensics: A Field Manual for Collecting, Examining, and Preserving Evidence of Computer Crimes provides a set of varied resources for anyone required to look under the hood and behind closed doors of a virtual world to gather evidence and to establish credible audit trails of electronic wrong doing. Knowing how to identify, gather, document, and preserve evidence of electronic tampering and misuse makes reading this book and using the forensic audit procedures it discusses essential to protecting corporate assets. \'a9 2002 by Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Book\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
\
ID: 1192\
Nakasone, H., Beck, S.D.\
7003771134;7201823661;\
Forensic automatic speaker recognition\
(2001) 2001: A Speaker Odyssey - The Speaker Recognition Workshop, pp. 139-144. Cited 24 times.\
https://www.scopus.com/inward/record.uri?eid=2-s2.0-84966988443&partnerID=40&md5=0486b36dc635b322fc3e754183357a0d\
\
AFFILIATIONS: Federal Bureau of Investigation, Quantico, VA  22135, United States; \
BAE Systems, Austin, TX  78725, United States\
ABSTRACT: Automatic speaker recognition technology appears to have reached a sufficient level of maturity for realistic application in the field of forensic science. However, there are key issues to be solved before the forensic community will accept its use as an investigative assistant or as evidence in actual criminal cases. To assess the state of the technology, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) built a speech corpus that included multiple levels of increasing difficulty based on text-independence, channel-independence, speaking mode, and speech duration. An evaluation of multiple automatic speaker recognition programs indicated that a large GMM model-based recognition algorithm operating with features that are robust with respect to channel variations had the best performance. In this paper we describe (1) the results of evaluations of the recognition performance produced by multiple participating research organizations, (2) The FBI\'92s initial Forensic Automatic Speaker Recognition (FASR) program based on these concepts, and (3) a confidence measurement method to indicate the probabilistic certainty level of correctness of each recognition decision. We will also discuss the need and justification for input speech screening and pre-processing to improve the recognition performance of the FASR as applied in a real forensic environment. \'a9 2001: A Speaker Odyssey - The Speaker Recognition Workshop. All rights reserved.\
DOCUMENT TYPE: Conference Paper\
PUBLICATION STAGE: Final\
SOURCE: Scopus\
}